    Aside from the files bio.c and tty.c most of the drivers contained
in  these  directories make no use of our modifications to the system.
All drivers in 'dmr' have been rigourously tested. Those  in  'unused'
cannot  be  guaranteed to the same extent. The multitude of hp drivers
are mostly different in configuration.

cr.c      Card reader driver for UNSW home grown buffered reader.

crd.c     Driver for standard DEC CR11 card reader.

dj.c      Will drive multiple DJ11's. Supports hardware silo on input.

dz.c      This  DZ11  driver  will  handle  Dial-in  lines  and   will
          handshake  with  terminals  that  use Data Terminal Ready to
          control output, also supports silo on input.

ei.c      UT200 (modified) Emulator on DP11. Talks to our  version  of
          QUEBEC  Export-Import in the best way.  There are other ver-
          sions of this driver for DU11's and for the standard  KRONOS
          (NOS)  E/I; Although the exact version you need is maybe not
          here, it should not be too difficult to change our one. Tun-
          ing  it  up  to  your of Export is a different problem.  see
          'basserbatch' and 'unswbatch' directories.

hp.c      standard RP04 driver.

ht.c      TU16 Driver.

kl.c      KL11/DL11 Driver. (no modem support - see unused for this )

lp.c      This driver will support both standard DEC LP05/LP11 and CDC
          lineprinters.  It  features  block  buffering  and  settable
          parameters (stty calls).  High speed (>200LPM) line printers
          are handled better since buffers are used to queue chars for
          output.  No longer is system cpu bound when printing !!!

msc.c     Driver  for  Microcomputer  Systems  controller  with  Ampex
          DM9100 drives. Optimises seeking and rotation and does over-
          lapped seeks for multiple drives.  A  la  RK05  driver  from
          Childrens Museum.

rk.c      Modified Childrens Museum (Boston) RK05  driver.  MANY  bugs
          fixed and has an improved scheme for optimizing layout. Will
          also support pseudo rk05's such as PERTEC which  don't  have
          overlapped seeks.  Layout scheme places logical block one in
          center of the disk, ie inodes are at disk centre thus reduc-
          ing seeking time.

tm.c      TU10 driver which supports all features of our  TU16  driver
          and more. Stty calls can be used for tape positioning etc.

unused    Directory containing other things we dont use. Have a look.

				Good Luck
				and
				Happy Hunting

				Chris Maltby
