Installation instructions:

[1]
Get the four pieces of the reduced Yale Star Catalog from net.sources
and save in this directory under the name "yale.star". You may choose
another directory, name, or path conventions for this large file, but
then you will have to change the #define constant near the beginning of
starchart.c.

Fine points
-----
The yale stuff was posted as five articles, each under 50K:

(1) Intro (2) Data 1-of-4 (3) Data 2-of-4 [SIC] (4) Data 3-of-4 (5) Data 4-of-4


Sites without much disk space may truncate the file at any point, as the
data is sorted in order of increasing intensity (as the programs expect)

User's with copies of the Yale Data may reformat into the condensed format.
This is described in the first posting, which is the overview of the data.
-----

[2]
Do a "make all" to compile all software. They are described in the man page
"starchart.l". All compile using starchart.c as the mainline, with device
driver specifics in modules of appropriate name.

[3]
You may now try "man test" to make an Orion pic file similar to the one
posted to the net recently. Or you may test by outputting to the display,
as described in the EXAMPLE section of the man page.

[4]
You can now delete the original shar file, plus this file.


NOTES:

Tty display users (*sigh*) may which to alter "stardsp" to output to the
display using an appropriate number of of rows and columns on the screen.
(Presently 31x79 for a 32x80 display. 23x79 is a bit sparse). Find the
ROWS and COLS #defines in starchartdsp.c and update. Or be really ambitious
and recode them as run time variables.

Tektroniks users may wish to alter scaling parameters based on the actual
physical dimensions of the display raster, to get the cleanest possible star
glyphs on output. The #defines XSCALE and YSCALE are the ratio (I've reduced
them to LCD) between your device X (or Y) coordinates, and true Tektroniks
coordinates (X=1024, Y=768). XSCALEI and YSCALEI are their inverses.

Pic file users: the #define PICFRAG can be adjusted downward (presently 8)
should your pic input overflow pic's buffers. This happens when a long
move,draw,draw,...,draw sequence happens. Smaler PICFRAGs make larger files,
by forming fragmented move,draw commands.

PostScript users: you may wish to play with th boiler-plate macros which
define star shapes (e.g. 's1' does first magnitude stars).
