		THE RAND TEXT EDITOR

Symbols: [xx] brackets indicate options
	 <xx> indicate key
	 (*)  insert figures for hardcopy version

To use the Rand Text Editor type:
	re [FILENAME] <RET>
FILENAME identifies the file you wish to view/edit.  If you
do not provide a FILENAME one of the following will occur:

	1)  A file will be created and named 'first' for
	    you if no file named 'first' already exists;

	2)  If a file named 'first' already exists, 'first'
	    will be displayed.

FILENAME  may consist of up to 8 alphanumeric characters.
The beginning 37 lines of the file will be displayed in
a "window" (the visual display of your file on the screen)
78 columns wide through which you view and manipulate your
file. This page is delimited by
dashed lines on the top, bottom, and right sides.  The left
boundary is marked by semicolons.  Semicolons mark the beginning
of the remaining empty lines in the file.  Thus, when entering
a new file the left boundary will consist entirely of semicolons.
However, should you enter, for example, text on Lines 1 and 2,
write the file, and then retrieve the file for editing again
you will note that Lines 1 and 2 are now preceded by dashes while
the remaining  empty lines are preceded by semicolons.

Also displayed in the window along the boundaries are position
markers ( ) that identify the current line and column position
of the cursor.  When entering a file, and not specifying the
line number (option described below) the cursor appears in the
upper left hand corner, that is Line 1, Column 1.  The position
markers thus appear on the left and right ends of Line 1, and
the top and bottom of Column 1 (*).

Typing
	re FILENAME [n] <RET>
where n is a line number will cause Line n to be displayed at
the top of the window.  If n is a string of characters beginning
with an alpha character, the position markers will identify the
the line and column of the first character in string n and a
cursor will appear under this character.  If the character
string appears within the first 37 lines of text, the line
at the top of the window will be the first line of the file----
and you must follow the line and column markers to locate your
string.  However, if the string appears in a line after the
first 37, the first line at the top of the page will be the
line containing the character string.  Note the column marker
to locate your string in the first line.
