			VCAL AND FRIENDS                  1/29/87

def.:  a set of calendar and appointment utility programs to replace
       the traditional paper calendar.
       
Vcal and friends allow the user to view a calendar, enter dates and
times of activities, set times for prompts to the CRT and to produce
lists of a month's activities.  Multiple data files may be used to
allow the user to have one calendar for personal activities, one for
business activities, one for project milestones, etc.

These programs are written in 'C' and run under UNIX.  To date they
have been compiled and execute on the following systems:

DEC PDP 11/70	UNIX Version 7
DEC VAX 11/750	UNIX BSD 4.2 and 4.3
Sun 2/170	UNIX BSD 4.2
Sun 3/160	UNIX BSD 4.2
Sun 3/260 	UNIX BSD 4.2

Included in this package are six source files, six manual files, a
makefile and this introduction.  The makefile is for use with the
standard "make" utility on a VAX 11/750 under BSD 4.3.  For use with
a PDP 11/70 BSD Version 7 change the makefile library entry from
"termlib" to "termcap".

All the "vcal" files have been combined here with the "shar" script.
Since the combined size of the files are greater than 65,000
characters they have been broken into two parts for transmission.
Part 1 contains makefile, appts.c, autocall.c and callme.c along
with the manual pages for these.  Part 2 contains eappts.c, lcal.c
and vcal.c and their manual pages.

Synopsis of files:

appts		displays the current or specified day's activities

autocall	starts background reminder processes for each of the
		current day's activities

callme		starts a background reminder process for a specified
		time and activity

eappts		allows activities to be entered into a data file from
		the command line

lcal		produces a tabular listing of the current or specified
		month's activities

vcal		visual calendar displaying the current or specified
		month's activities; allows entries to be added, changed
		or deleted

makefile	makefile for all of the "vcal" programs

manual pages:	appts.l autocall.l callme.l eappts.l lcal.l vcal.l

Comments and suggestions will be appreciated and considered.

Mike Essex  (~me)

     ....!ucbvax!zehntel!me
     ....!decvax!sytek!zehntel!me
     ...."zehntel!me"@BERKELEY
