	What we have here is a stripped-down pair of programs which can, in
the barest marginal sense, allow you to read cpio tapes.  They were written
for one particular purpose without the expectation that they would ever be
used again, so no attempt was made to support any functionality beyond the
dead minimum.

	The reason I wrote these programs was to be able to read my Sys5
distribution tapes on my 4.2 bsd system.  The idea was that I would use
cpiolist to get a listing of all the files on the /usr file system, and
then (once I knew the names of the required files) use cpioextract to pull
off the source for the 'real' cpio, compile that under 4.2, and use it to
do the rest of the job correctly.  Notice 3 important things.  First,
cpioextract only extracts a single file per invocation.  Second, it expects
all of the directories along the path to that file to be created already.
Third, these programs only know about binary header type cpio archives
(i.e. tapes made WITHOUT the -c flag).  This is the way the Sys5
distribution was done (at least the distribution I got).

	Various caveats:  These programs were written from the Sys 5
documentation describing the cpio file formats.  From what I can gather,
since I did not look at the Sys 5 cpio sources while I was writing this, it
should qualify as public domain.  The primary purpose of these programs is
to bootstrap a full-fledged cpio from a Sys 5 distribution tape onto a
system which doesn't have cpio already (i.e. 4.2 bsd).  Having these
programs will give you the technical means of doing this; it may not give
you the legal right.  I am far from qualified to pass judgement on the
issues of what a particular Unix (tm) license allow you to do.  Use these
programs at your own risk.  All I will say is that as a holder of both Sys
5 and 4.2 bsd source licenses, I am allowed to port the Sys 5 utilities to
my 4.2 system.  If you don't hold both licenses, you probably aren't.

	Eventually, I will get around to adding more functionality to these
programs.  The top of the list features are the '-c' and '-d' flags, and
then pattern matching for file names.  If I ever get around to doing those,
I'll post the updated versions.  If you find any problems with either of
these programs, please feel free to contact me.  I'll be happy to help if I
can, but please don't expect me to have the updated versions ready on any
particular schedule.

allegra!phri!roy (Roy Smith)
System Administrator, Public Health Research Institute
