	Sketchy documentation for uuslave

	John Gilmore
	23 March 1987

This directory contains source for uuslave, a freeware program that
implements the Unix uucp file transfer protocol.

Uuslave is not derived from any AT&T or Unix code.  See the file
ATT.CERTIFICATION in this directory.  Uuslave can be freely given to
anyone, whether they have a Unix license or not.

Currently uuslave consists of a single source file, uuslave.c.  There
are two more files for MSDOS systems, comport.h and comport.asm, which
contain an interrupt-driven routine for handling the comm port.  The
system-dependent parts of other uuslave ports will be broken out into
separate files in the future, to make porting easier.


Compiling uuslave

An utterly trivial Makefile is included.  You basically just compile
uuslave.c and produce a runnable program.  For msdos, you have to
assemble comport.asm and link with it too.  You can define preprocessor
variables to get it to compile for these environments:

	BSD	Berkeley Unix
	SYSV	Unix System V
	CPM	CP/M-80
	MSDOS	Mess-Dos
	ST	Atari ST

It also has some other options:

	COMPORT	Use Tim Pozar's interrupt driven I/O routines under MSDOS
	DEBUG	Print out reams of debugging info
	LOG	Log each file transferred, like Unix uucp does, in LOGFILE
	SUBDIR	Keep received files in subdirectories like 4.2BSD uucp does


Running uuslave

Uuslave can be run in two modes.  One way is designed for small micros
and such; uuslave will sit and wait for someone to call on the modem,
and will then prompt them with "login: " and "Password:" and check the
answers.  When another machine calls in and supplies the right login
and password, it will run the uucp protocol to talk to that machine.
Then it hangs up the phone and goes back to listening for another call.
You get this mode by giving uuslave an argument, which is the device
name of the serial port that it should listen on.

The other mode is for larger machines where there already exist programs
to listen for callers on the phones.  When such a program decides that
the caller is a uucp machine, it can run uuslave with no arguments.  
Uuslave will immediately begin the uucp protocol negotiations on its
standard input.  When it is done transferring files, it will hang up
the phone and exit.  In this role, it acts much like the Unix "uucico"
program which implements uucp, and which is called when another machine
logs in to your machine with a login like "uucp" or "Uhoptoad".

When running with no arguments, uuslave will change directories to
a standard place (/usr/spool/uucp on Unix systems) and will leave its
debugging logs in "uuslave.log" in that directory.


For hints on debugging and porting uuslave, see the file PORTING.

Copyright 1987 John Gilmore; you can redistribute only if your recipients can.
{sun,ptsfa,lll-crg,ihnp4,ucbvax}!hoptoad!gnu	       gnu@ingres.berkeley.edu
