
Submitted by: cdx39!jc@EDDIE.MIT.EDU (John Chambers)
Mod.sources: Volume 8, Issue 72
Archive-name: uutty/Part01

[  I have not tried this.  --r$  ]

Hello.  Enclosed is a program which I've been using for some
time as a replacement for getty; I call it "uutty" as a hint
that it cooperates with uucp/uux/mail/cu/etc.  Several friends
have suggested I broadcast it, so here it is....

Uutty's primary function is to make it easy to use a port in
both directions with little grief.  On a port with an ACU-type
modem, it allows both outgoing and incoming calls without any
need to fiddle with inittab.  On a direct link, it allows the
use of commands like uucp or cu in either direction at any
time. 

Uutty's secondary function is to try to recognize input from 
overly-intelligent modems or other login daemons, and avoid
getting into a cycle-eating conversation with them.

There is also a tertiary function:  optionally producing an
audit (debug) trail of traffic on the port at times when no
program (such as uucico or cu) is using it.  This is mostly
useful when you have a talkative modem or LAN connection.

This version should be classified as a "beta test" version;
it has been tested on only a few varieties of Unix, and it
will probably have to be modified for others.  The two parts
that may not be very portable are the code to put a port into
raw mode (makeraw.c), and the code to log in a user (*.utmp.c).

Another major reason for wanting the source code close at 
hand is that you will likely have to twiddle with the code 
that handles talkative modems, in order to respond correctly
to your modems' own variety of bizarreness.  An especially
common problem is being overly sensitive to speed.  Many
modems won't accept commands at the full line speed (1200
baud or whatever); they assume that commands come from a
person typing at a keyboard, and lose characters when it
comes from a program in a burst.  This program writes the
"init" strings byte-at-a-time, which may be slow enough,
but you may have to slow these writes down even more to
make the modem understand.  
