edit is a full screen text editor based (ever more loosely) on ed.
It contains a number of purloined features and a number of unique ones.
It can be made to run on any terminal with absolute cursor addressing
and insert/delete line capability. 
No modifications to box-stock UNIX are necessary, but the performance
of the shell and spell-checking features will be less satisfactory
if your system does not implement signal holding. Code which implements
this feature in a simple-minded manner is in the subdirectory sys.
The edit code which uses this feature and its alternate are conditionally
compiled based on the definition of SIG_HOLD, so be sure to install
the new include file (in subdirectory include) or modify your own.

To configure a new terminal type, create a file termxxx.c,
where xxx is the code for that type, and run maketerm to compile
and install it. Examples of the source file for the General Terminal 100
(formerly Infoton), Hewlett-Packard 2621, and Heathkit H19 have
been included as termi100.c, term2621.c and termh19.c, respectively.
You will need some means of setting the TERM environment variable
with the terminal type code. We keep this information in /etc/ttys
(along with the room number where the terminal is located).
The version of init.c in this directory is able to cope with this
extra information and also fixes the bug in our distributed version
which kept "kill -2 1" from working. By including the lines
"TERM=`termtype`" and "export TERM" in your .profile file the TERM
variable will be set automatically each time you login. The version
of termtype included expects the terminal type to be the second field
in /etc/ttys. If you elect to put this information elsewhere, you
will have to make necessary modifications.

A brief outline of how to install edit:
	1. If your kernal already has signal holding, skip this step.
	   Make the necessary changes to sig.c and sys4.c and generate
	   and install a new kernal.
	   Install signal.h in /usr/include.
	2. If you already have a means to set the TERM environment
	   variable, skip to step 5.
	   Compile and install the new version of /etc/init.
	3. Edit /etc/ttys to include terminal type information
	   (see sample ttys file)
	4. Compile and install termtype.
	5. For each terminal type to be supported create a termxxx.c
	   and run "maketerm xxx" to install the configuration file.
	   (You must first create a directory "/usr/lib/termchar".)
	6. Make a directory /usr/lib/edit and copy the file help into it.
	   Change to the spell subdirectory and "make install". If you
	   have made changes to your spell dictionary, you should make
	   hdict and hstop first.
	7. Change to the sh subdirectory and "make install".
	   If desired, the shell which edit uses may be used as the
	   standard system shell to reduce swapping and save swap space.
	   The only changes made were to send
	   a signal to the parent process and specially mark the prompt
	   string when invoked with the arguments "-E ppid".
	   Otherwise, it is the distributed Bourne shell.
	8. Type "make edit" and stand back.
	9. Move edit to /bin, change its owner to root and set
	   the setuid bit.
	   (edit nices itself to high priority to compensate for the
	   fact that it must run in CBREAK mode with no echo.)
	10. edit.man is an formatted version of the manual. edit.nr
	   is the unformatted version that you can run off on your
	   fancy printer if you have the Berkley -me macro package.
