                        _U_N_I_X _S_u_b_r_o_u_t_i_n_e_s



a2bdate - convert ASCII date form to binary
abort  -  generate an IOT fault
abs, fabs - absolute value
alloc, free - core allocator
atan, atan2 - arc tangent function
atof - convert ASCII to floating
atoi - convert ASCII to integer
b2adate - convert integer date vector to ASCII
break, brk, sbrk - change core allocation
chdir - change working directory
chmod - change mode of file
chown - change owner and group of a file
close  -  close a file
copy - copy string a into string b.
crfork, crexit, crread, crwrite, crexch, crprior - coroutine scheme
creat  -  create a new file
crypt - password encoding
csw - read console switches
ctime, localtime, gmtime  -  convert date and time to ASCII
dup - duplicate an open file descriptor
ecvt, fcvt - output conversion
end, etext, edata - last locations in program
equal - compare two strings.
exec, execl, execv  -  execute a file
exit - terminate process
exp - exponential function
floor, ceil - floor and ceiling functions
fmod - floating modulo function
fork  -  spawn new process
fptrap - floating point interpreter
fstat  -  get status of open file
gamma - log gamma function
getarg, iargc - get command arguments from Fortran
getc, getw, fopen  -  buffered input
getchar - read character
getdate - convert various date forms into one ASCII format
getdev - get the full pathname of a device
getgid  -  get group identifications
getline - read a line from a buffer input file.
getpid  -  get process identification
gets - read the next line from standard input.
gettime - convert various time forms into one ASCII format
getuid  -  get user identifications
gtty  -  get typewriter status
hmul - high-order product
ierror - catch Fortran errors
indir - indirect system call















infoname - Return user info by name.
infouid - Return user info by userid.
kill  -  send signal to a process
ldiv, lrem - long division
link - link to a file
locv - long output conversion
log - natural logarithm
max - return the greater of two values.
mknod - make a directory or a special file
mktemp  create temporary file name
monitor - prepare execution profile
mount - mount file system
move - copy n characters form buffer a to buffer b.
ms - macros for formatting manuscripts
nargs - argument count
nice - set program priority
nlist - get entries from name list
open - open for reading or writing
perror, sys_errlist, sysnerr, errno  system error messages
pipe - create an interprocess channel
plot - graphics interface
pow - floating exponentiation
printf - formatted print
profil - execution time profile
ptrace  -  process trace
putc, putw, fcreat, fflush  -  buffered output
putchar, flush - write character
putd - Convert an integer to character and write on a file.
puts - write the specified string to the file given.
pwname - return passwd entry by user name.
pwuid - get password record by user id.
qsort - quicker sort
rand, srand - random number generator
read - read from file
reset, setexit - execute non-local goto
salloc - string allocation and manipulation
same - compare the 1st n characters of two strings.
seek - move read/write pointer
setfil - specify Fortran file name
setgid - set process group ID
setuid - set process user ID
signal - catch or ignore signals
sin, cos - trigonometric functions
size - return the size of a string.
sleep - stop execution for interval
sname - find simple file name.
sqrt - square root function
stat - get file status
stime - set time
stringf - create formatted string
stty - set mode of typewriter

2













sync - update super-block
time - get date and time
times - get process times
ttyn - return name of current typewriter
umount - dismount file system
unlink - remove directory entry
wait - wait for process to terminate
whoname - find user entry in the who.info file by user name.
whouid - find user entry in the who.info file by userid.
write - write on a file










































3













