




This  directory  contains  sundry  programs  that   may   be   of
interest...but  this  note  is  about  the two directories SS and
SWAP. They are actually subsets of one another (SS is a subset of
SWAP).  These two programs are supposed to give a graphic display
of system performance.  By using the instrumentation imbedded  in
the  CWRU kernel and various other kernel structures the programs
are able to give a running picture of the core  map,  what  procs
are  currently  running,  disk space, idle time, cpu utilization,
swap time, etc.  Most all the information used in creating  these
displays  are  found  by either the gprocs system call (rand ver-
sion), or by seeking into /dev/kmem or /dev/mem.  The  difference
between SWAP and SS is that SWAP takes SS and adds the capability
of seeing a map of swap space (just like  the  core  map).   Both
programs are given since SWAP (while built on top of SS) has only
been partially debugged and  sometimes  does  some  flaky  things
(like  messing  up the screen when displaying the swap map).  One
can safely assume that any bugs found in SS are also  present  in
SWAP,  as  SWAP  uses the exact same code as SS for everything SS
does.
------
The two programs were written for an 11/34, so we have no idea if
there are any problems which might be encountered with Unix on an
11/45 or 11/70 (i.e. split I/D).  The display  that  appears  for
core  and  swap maps differ slightly from SS to SWAP in that SWAP
labels all procs owned by uid 0 (root) as root, while  SS  labels
them  unix  (merely personal prefernce of the authors).  The run-
ning count of free disk space is calculated by a count  found  in
the  super block of mounted disks, thus if a mounted disk doesn't
have  this  information  available  a  garbage  count   will   be
displayed;  It  should  be  noted that on our system we have only
RK05 disk packs, so that use of SS and SWAP with other type disks
hasn't been tested either.
-------
A  NOTE ABOUT INSTRUMENTATION.... when SS was written the version
of the kernel that was written had different instrumentation than
is  presently in the kernel.  Thus SS will not display statistics
correctly, as the stats in the  present  kernel  aren't  what  it
expects.   However,  the  hooks  are  there  to  make the trivial
changes for your (or our) stats.  In general we use SS  and  SWAP
to look at the proc table and the core and swap maps.
------
The programs were written with the hope that they could be run on
most any half-intelligent  terminal  (i.e.  cursor  addressable).
The  cursor and screen erase routines are able to handle the ter-
minals that we have and decide  what  terminal  they  are  on  by
checking  out  /etc/ttys.   Don't  believe  everything you see in
these routines about terminal  identification  numbers,  as  they
vary widely from system to system.  Finally we might note that in
the case of the Beehive Super Bee terminals  the  erase  sequence
(that  includes  writing blank lines out to the screen) is super-
fluous, but noone ever got around to fixing it as it  works  like
it  is.   Note  also  that  these routines (curs and eras) appear
elsewhere on these disks in many of the games we are also  giving
out.
------
Any complaints or questions (maybe even, god forbid, compliments)










should be addressed to Greg Ordy who wrote  SS  (with  help  from
Bill  Shannon)  or  Sam  Leffler who added the swap map to create
SWAP.


























































