#file data
@   human (or you)
-   a wall
|   a wall
+   a door
.   the floor of a room
#   a corridor
}   water filled area
<   the staircase to the previous level
>   the staircase to the next level
^   a trap
$   a pile, pot or chest of gold
%%  a piece of food
!   a potion
*   a gem
?   a scroll
=   a ring
/   a wand
[   a suit of armor
)   a weapon
(   a useful item (camera, key, rope etc.)
0   an iron ball
_   an iron chain
"   an amulet
,   a trapper
:   a chameleon
'   a lurker above
&   a demon
A   a giant ant
B   a giant bat
C   a centaur;
	Of all the monsters put together by  the  Greek  imagination
	the  Centaurs (Kentauroi) constituted a class in themselves.
	Despite a strong streak  of  sensuality  in  their  make-up,
	their  normal  behaviour  was  moral, and they took a kindly
	thought of man's welfare. The attempted outrage of Nessos on
	Deianeira,  and  that  of the whole tribe of Centaurs on the
	Lapith women, are more than offset  by  the  hospitality  of
	Pholos  and  by  the  wisdom of Cheiron, physician, prophet,
	lyrist, and the instructor of Achilles.  Further,  the  Cen-
	taurs  were  peculiar in that their nature, which united the
	body of a horse with the trunk and head of a  man,  involved
	an  unthinkable  duplication  of  vital organs and important
	members. So grotesque a combination seems  almost  un-Greek.
	These  strange  creatures were said to live in the caves and
	clefts of the mountains, myths associating  them  especially
	with the hills of Thessaly and the range of Erymanthos.
		[Mythology of all races, Vol. 1, pp. 270-271]
D   a dragon;
	In the West the dragon was the natural  enemy  of  man.  Although
	preferring to live in bleak and desolate regions, whenever it was
	seen among men it left in its wake a  trail  of  destruction  and
	disease. Yet any attempt to slay this beast was a perilous under-
	taking. For the dragon's assailant had to contend not  only  with
	clouds  of  sulphurous fumes pouring from its fire-breathing nos-
	trils, but also with the thrashings of its tail, the most  deadly
	part of its serpent-like body.
	[From: Mythical Beasts by Deirdre Headon (The Leprechaun Library)]
E   a floating eye
F   a freezing sphere
G   a gnome
H   a hobgoblin;
	Hobgoblin. Used by the  Puritans  and  in  later  times  for
	wicked  goblin  spirits,  as in Bunyan's 'Hobgoblin nor foul
	friend', but its more correct use is for the friendly  spir-
	its  of  the brownie type.  In 'A midsummer night's dream' a
	fairy says to Shakespeare's Puck:
		Those that Hobgoblin call you, and sweet Puck,
		You do their work, and they shall have good luck:
		Are you not he?
	and obviously Puck would not wish to be called  a  hobgoblin
	if that was an ill-omened word.
	Hobgoblins are on the whole, good-humoured and ready  to  be
	helpful,  but fond of practical joking, and like most of the
	fairies rather nasty people to annoy. Boggarts hover on  the
	verge of hobgoblindom.  Bogles are just over the edge.
	One Hob mentioned by Henderson, was Hob Headless who haunted
	the  road  between Hurworth and Neasham, but could not cross
	the little river Kent, which flowed into the  Tess.  He  was
	exorcised  and  laid under a large stone by the roadside for
	ninety-nine years and a day. If anyone was so unwary  as  to
	sit  on  that stone, he would be unable to quit it for ever.
	The ninety-nine years is nearly up, so trouble may  soon  be
	heard of on the road between Hurworth and Neasham.
		[Katharine Briggs, A  dictionary  of Fairies]
I   an invisible stalker
J   a jackal
K   a kobold
L   a leprechaun;
	The Irish Leprechaun is the Faeries' shoemaker and is  known
	under  various  names  in different parts of Ireland: Cluri-
	caune in Cork, Lurican in Kerry, Lurikeen in Kildare and Lu-
	rigadaun  in  Tipperary.  Although he works for the Faeries,
	the Leprechaun is not of the same species. He is small,  has
	dark  skin  and wears strange clothes.  His nature has some-
	thing of the manic-depressive about it: first  he  is  quite
	happy,  whistling merrily as he nails a sole on to a shoe; a
	few minutes later, he is sullen and  morose,  drunk  on  his
	home-made  heather ale. The Leprechaun's two great loves are
	tobacco and whiskey, and he is a first-rate con-man,  impos-
	sible  to  out-fox.  No  one, no matter how clever, has ever
	managed to cheat him out of his hidden pot of  gold  or  his
	magic  shilling. At the last minute he always thinks of some
	way to divert his captor's attention  and  vanishes  in  the
	twinkling  of  an eye.
		[From: A Field Guide to the Little People
			by  Nancy Arrowsmith & George Moorse. ]
M   a mimic
N   a nymph
O   an orc
P   a purple worm
Q   a quasit
R   a rust monster
S   a snake
T   a troll
U   an umber hulk
V   a vampire
W   a wraith
X   a xorn
Y   a yeti
Z   a zombie
a   an acid blob
b   a giant beetle
c   a cockatrice;
	Once in a great while, when the positions of the  stars  are
	just  right, a seven-year-old rooster will lay an egg. Then,
	along will come a snake, to coil around the egg, or a  toad,
	to  squat  upon  the  egg, keeping it warm and helping it to
	hatch. When it hatches, out comes a creature  called  basil-
	isk, or cockatrice, the most deadly of all creatures. A sin-
	gle glance from its yellow, piercing toad's eyes  will  kill
	both  man  and beast. Its power of destruction is said to be
	so great that sometimes simply to hear its  hiss  can  prove
	fatal.  Its breath is so venomenous that it causes all vege-
	tation to wither.
	There is, however, one  creature  which  can  withstand  the
	basilisk's deadly gaze, and this is the weasel. No one knows
	why this is so, but although the fierce weasel can slay  the
	basilisk,  it will itself be killed in the struggle. Perhaps
	the weasel knows the basilisk's fatal weakness: if  it  ever
	sees  its own reflection in a mirror it will perish instant-
	ly. But even a dead basilisk is dangerous, for  it  is  said
	that merely touching its lifeless body can cause a person to
	sicken and die.
		[From: Mythical Beasts by Deirdre Headon (The Leprechaun
		Library) and other sources. ]
d   a dog
e   an ettin
f   a fog cloud
g   a gelatinous cube
h   a homunculus
i   an imp;
	An 'imp' is an off-shoot or cutting. Thus an 'ymp tree'  was
	a grafted tree, or one grown from a cutting, not from seed.
	'Imp' properly means a small devil, an off-shoot  of  Satan,
	but  the distinction between goblins or bogles and imps from
	hell is hard to make, and many in the  Celtic  countries  as
	well as the English Puritans regarded all fairies as devils.
	The fairies of tradition often hover  uneasily  between  the
	ghostly and the diabolic state.
		[Katharine Briggs, A dictionary of Fairies]
j   a jaguar
k   a killer bee
l   a leocrotta
m   a minotaur
n   a nurse
o   an owlbear
p   a piercer
q   a quivering blob
r   a giant rat
s   a scorpion
t   a tengu;
	The tengu was the  most  troublesome  creature  of  Japanese
	legend.	Part  bird  and part man, with red beak for a nose
	and flashing eyes, the tengu was notorious for  stirring  up
	feuds  and  prolonging  enmity between families. Indeed, the
	belligerent tengus were supposed to have  been  man's  first
	instructors in the use of arms.
		[From: Mythical Beasts by Deirdre Headon
			(The Leprechaun Library). ]
u   a unicorn;
	Men have always sought the elusive unicorn, for  the  single
	twisted  horn  which projected from its forehead was thought
	to be a powerful talisman. It was said that the unicorn  had
	simply  to  dip  the tip of its horn in a muddy pool for the
	water to become pure. Men also believed that to  drink  from
	this horn was a protection against all sickness, and that if
	the horn was ground to a powder it would act as an  antidote
	to  all poisons. Less than 200 years ago in France, the horn
	of a unicorn was used in a ceremony to test the  royal  food
	for poison.
	Although only the size of a small horse, the  unicorn  is  a
	very  fierce  beast,  capable  of killing an elephant with a
	single thrust from its horn.  Its  fleetness  of  foot  also
	makes  this solitary creature difficult to capture. However,
	it can be tamed and captured by a maiden. Made gentle by the
	sight  of a virgin, the unicorn can be lured to lay its head
	in her lap, and in this docile mood, the maiden  may  secure
	it with a golden rope.
		[From: Mythical Beasts by Deirdre Headon
			(The Leprechaun Library). ]
v   a violet fungi
w   a long worm;
	From its teeth the crysknife can be manufactured.
x   a xan;
	The xan were animals sent to prick the legs of the Lords of Xibalba.
y   a yellow light
z   a zruty;
	The zruty are wild and gigantic beings, living in the wildernesses
	of the Tatra mountains.
~   the tail of a long worm
	Welcome to HACK!		   ( description of version 1.0.1 )

	Hack is a Dungeons and Dragons like game where you (the adventurer)
descend into the depths of the dungeon in search of the Amulet of Yendor
(reputed to be hidden below the twentieth level).  You are accompanied by a
little dog that can help you in many ways and can be trained to do all
sorts of things. On the way you will find useful (or useless) items, (quite
possibly with magic properties) and assorted monsters.  You attack a monster
by trying to move into the space a monster is in (but often it is much
wiser to leave it alone).

	Unlike most adventure games, which give you a verbal description of
your location, hack gives you a visual image of the dungeon level you are on.

	Hack uses the following symbols:
		A to Z and a to z:  monsters.  You can find out what a letter
represents by saying "/ (letter)", as in "/A", which will tell you that 'A'
is a giant ant.
		- and |  These form the walls of a room (or maze).
		.  this is the floor of a room.
		#  this is a corridor.
		>  this is the staircase to the next level.
		<  the staircase to the previous level.
		`  A large boulder.
		@  You (usually).
		^  A trap.
		)  A weapon of some sort.
		(  Some other useful object (key, rope, dynamite, camera, ...)
		[  A suit of armor.
		%  A piece of food (not necessarily healthy ...).
		/  A wand.
		=  A ring.
		?  A scroll.
		!  A magic potion.
		$  A pile or pot of gold.

Commands:
	Hack knows the following commands:
	?	help: print this list.
	Q	Quit the game.
	S	Save the game.
	<	up: go up the staircase (if you are standing on it).
	>	down: go down (just like up).
	kjhlyubn - go one step in the direction indicated.
		k: north (i.e., to the top of the screen),
		j: south, h: west, l: east, y: ne, u: nw, b: se, n: sw.
	KJHLYUBN - Go in that direction until you hit a wall or run
		into something.
	m	(followed by one of kjhlyubn): move without picking up
		any objects.
	M	(followed by one of KJHLYUBN): Move far, no pickup.
	f	(followed by one of kjhlyubn): move until something
		interesting is found.
	F	(followed by one of KJHLYUBN): as previous, but forking
		of corridors is not considered interesting.
	i	print your inventory.
	s	search for secret doors and traps around you.
	^	ask for the type of a trap you found earlier.
	)	ask for current wielded weapon.
	[	ask for current armor.
	=	ask for current rings.
	.	rest, do nothing.
	^R	redraw the screen.
	^P	repeat last message
		(subsequent ^P's repeat earlier messages).
	^T	teleport.
	/	(followed by any symbol): tell what this symbol represents.
	e	eat food.
	w	wield weapon. w- means: wield nothing, use bare hands.
	q	drink (quaff) a potion.
	r	read a scroll.
	T	Takeoff armor.
	R	Remove Ring.
	W	Wear armor.
	P	Put on a ring.
	t	throw or shoot a weapon.
	z	zap a wand.
	p	pay your shopping bill.
	d	drop something. d7a: drop seven items of object a.
	D	Drop several things.
		In answer to the question "What kinds of things do you
		want to drop? [!%= au]" you should give zero or more
		object symbols possibly followed by 'a' and/or 'u'.
		'a' means: drop all such objects, without asking for
			confirmation.
		'u' means: drop only unpaid objects (when in a shop).
	a	use, apply - Generic command for using a key to lock
		or unlock a door, using a camera, using a rope, etc.
	c	call: name a certain object or class of objects.
	C	Call: Name an individual monster.
	E	Engrave: Write a message in the dust on the floor.
		E- means: use fingers for writing.
	o	set options. You will be asked to enter an option line.
		If this is empty, the current options are reported.
		Otherwise it should be a list of options separated by commas.
		Possible boolean options are: oneline, time, news, tombstone;
		they can be negated by prefixing them with '!' or "no".
		A compound option is endgame; it is followed by a description
		of what parts of the list of topscorers should be printed
		when the game is finished.
	v	print version number.

	You can put a number before a command to repeat it that many times,
	as in "20s" or "40.".

	Some special feature that have been added just for the AMIGA:

	The numeric keypad (and cursor keys) may be used to indicate
direction.  ie. 8 on the keypad, UP arrow and 'k' are all ways to move up
one space.  Pressing SHIFT with the keypad or arrow keys causes you move
in the desired direction until something interesting happens.  The 8 arrows
that appear on the title bar may also be use to move a single space in the
indicated direction at a time.

	Menus appear on the top of the screen so that you can just select a
command.  The command character appears on the menu so that you can use
these menus as a quick form of help.

	When you Christen a monster, or are prompted for a Teleport location
(only when you have a ring of Teleport Control), you can use the mouse to
indicate the place you want to go.


	Have Fun, and Good Hacking!
"Quit" is a four letter word.
A fading corridor enlightens your insight.
A glowing potion is too hot to drink.
A long worm hits with all of its length.
A monstrous mind is a toy for ever.
A ring of adornment protects against Nymphs.
A rumour has it that rumours are just rumours.
A smoky potion surely affects your vision.
A spear might hit a nurse.
A spear will hit an ettin.
A tin of smoked eel is a wonderful find.
A truly wise man never plays leapfrog with a unicorn.
A two-handed sword usually misses.
A unicorn can be tamed only by a fair maiden.
A visit to the Zoo is very educational; you meet interesting animals.
A wand of vibration might bring the whole cave crashing about your ears.
Afraid of falling piercers? Wear a helmet!
All monsters are created evil, but some are more evil than others.
An elven cloak is always the height of fashion.
An elven cloak protects against magic.
Any small object that is accidentally dropped will hide under a larger object.
Attack long worms from the rear - that is so much safer!
Be careful when eating salmon - your fingers might become greasy.
Be careful when throwing a boomerang - you might hit the back of your head.
Better go home and hit your kids. They are just little monsters!
Better go home and play with your kids. They are just little monsters!
Better leave the dungeon, otherwise you might get hurt badly.
Beware of dark rooms - they may be the Morgue.
Beware of falling rocks, wear a helmet!
Beware of wands of instant disaster.
Beyond the 23-rd level lies a happy retirement in a room of your own.
Blank scrolls make more interesting reading.
Booksellers never read scrolls; it might carry them to far away.
Booksellers never read scrolls; it might leave their shop unguarded.
Dead lizards protect against a cockatrice.
Death is just around the next door.
Death is life's way of telling you you've been fired.
Descend in order to meet more decent monsters.
Direct a direct hit on your direct opponent, directing in the right direction.
Don't bother about money: only Leprechauns and shopkeepers are interested.
Don't forget! Large dogs are MUCH harder to kill than little dogs.
Don't tell a soul you found a secret door, otherwise it isn't secret anymore.
Don't throw gems. They are so precious! Besides, you might hit a roommate.
Drinking might affect your health.
Drop your vanity and get rid of your jewels! Pickpockets about!
Dungeon expects every monster to do his duty.
Dust is an armor of poor quality.
Eventually all wands of striking do strike.
Eventually you will come to admire the swift elegance of a retreating nymph.
Ever tried to catch a flying boomerang?
Every dog should be a domesticated one.
Every hand has only one finger to put a ring on. You've got only two hands. So?
Everybody should have tasted a scorpion at least once in his life.
Fiery letters might deter monsters.
First Law of Hacking: leaving is much more difficult than entering.
For any remedy there is a misery.
Fourth Law of Hacking: you will find the exit at the entrance.
Gems are the droppings of other inmates.
Gems do get a burden.
Genocide on shopkeepers is punishable.
Giving head to a long worm is like a long lasting reception.
Good day for overcoming obstacles.  Try a steeplechase.
Gossip is the opiate of the depressed.
Hackers do it with bugs.
Half Moon tonight.  (At least it's better than no Moon at all.)
Hitting is the lingua franca in these regions.
Hungry dogs are unreliable.
Hungry? There is an abundance of food on the next level.
I doubt whether nurses are virgins.
I once knew a hacker who ate too fast and choked to death.....
I smell a maze of twisty little passages.
If a shopkeeper kicks you out of his shop, he'll kick you out of the dungeon.
If you are too cute some monsters might be tempted to embrace you.
If you can't learn to do it well, learn to enjoy doing it badly.
If you need a wand of digging, kindly ask the minotaur.
If you see nurses you better start looking somewhere for a doctor.
If you turn blind: don't expect your dog to be turned into a seeing-eye dog.
If you want to hit, use a dagger.
If you want to rob a shop, train your dog.
If you're afraid of trapdoors, just cover the floor with all you've got.
Improve your environment, using a wand of rearrangement.
In a hurry? Try a ride on a fast moving quasit!
In need of a rest? Quaff a potion of sickness!
Inside a shop you better take a look at the price tags before buying anything.
It is bad manners to use a wand in a shop.
It is not always a good idea to whistle for your dog.
It might be a good idea to offer the unicorn a ruby.
It seems you keep overlooking a sign reading "No trespassing"!
It's all a matter of life and death, so beware of the undead.
It's not safe to Save.
Just below any trapdoor there may be another one. Just keep falling!
Keep a clear mind: quaff clear potions.
Keep your armours away from rust.
Keep your weaponry away from acids.
Kill a unicorn and you kill your luck.
Latest news? Put newsgroup 'netUNX.indoor.hackers-scroll' in your .newsrc!
Leprechauns hide their gold in a secret room.
Liquor sellers do not drink; they hate to see you twice.
Looking pale? Quaff a red potion!
M.M.Vault cashiers teleport any amount of gold to the next local branch.
Many monsters make a murdering mob.
Money is the root of all evil.
Money to invest? Take it to the local branch of the Magic Memory Vault!
Monsters come from nowhere to hit you everywhere.
Monsters sleep because you are boring, not because they ever get tired.
Most monsters prefer minced meat. That's why they are hitting you!
Most rumors are just as misleading as this one.
Much ado Nothing Happens.
Murder complaint? Mail to 'netnix!devil!gamble!freak!trap!lastwill!rip'.
Never ask a shopkeeper for a price list.
Never attack a guard.
Never fight a monster: you might get killed.
Never kick a sleeping dog.
Never map the labyrinth.
Never mind the monsters hitting you: they just replace the charwomen.
Never ride a long worm.
Never trust a random generator in magic fields.
Never use your best weapon to engrave a curse.
Never vomit on a door mat.
No weapon is better than a crysknife.
Not all rumors are as misleading as this one.
Not even a spear will hit a Xorn.
One has to leave shops before closing time.
One level further down somebody is getting killed, right now.
One wand of concentration equals eight scrolls of create monster.
Only a wizard can use a magic whistle.
Only david can find the zoo!
Only real trappers escape traps.
Only wizards are able to zap a wand.
Opening a tin is difficult, especially when you are not so strong!
Opening a tin is difficult, especially when you attempt this bare handed!
Operation coded OVERKILL has started now.
PLEASE ignore previous rumour.
Plain nymphs are harmless.
Playing billiards pays when you are in a shop.
Pursue the monsters and you will be had indeed.
Put on a ring of teleportation: it will take you away from onslaught.
Reading Tolkien might help you.
Reading Herbert will disgust you, but in one case it might be enlightening.
Reading might change your vision.
Reading might improve your scope.
Relying on a dog might turn you in a dog addict.
Savings do include amnesia.
Scorpions often hide under tripe rations.
Screw up your courage!  You've screwed up everything else.
Second Law of Hacking: first in, first out.
Shopkeepers accept creditcards, as long as you pay cash.
Snakes are often found under worthless objects.
Some monsters can be tamed. I once saw a hacker with a tame Dragon!
Speed Kills (The Doors)
Spinach, carrot, and a melon - a meal fit for a nurse!
Stay clear of the level of no return.
Suddenly the dungeon will collapse ...
Take a long worm from the rear, according to its mate it's a lot more fun.
Teleportation lessens your orientation.
The Jackal only eats bad food.
The Leprechaun Gold Tru$t is no division of the Magic Memory Vault.
The Leprechauns hide their treasure in a small hidden room.
The air is positively magic in here. Better wear a negative armor.
The best equipment for your work is, of course, the most expensive.
The emptiness of a ghost is too heavy to bear.
The longer the wand the better.
The secret of wands of Nothing Happens: try again!
The use of dynamite is dangerous.
There are monsters of softening penetration.
There are monsters of striking charity.
There have been people like you in here; their ghosts seek revenge on you.
There is a VIP-lounge on this level. Only first-class travellers admitted.
There is a big treasure hidden in the zoo!
There is a message concealed in each fortune cookie.
There is a trap on this level!
There is more magic in this cave than meets the eye.
There is no business like throw business.
There is no harm in praising a large dog.
There seem to be monsters of touching benevolence.
They say that a dagger hits.
They say that a dog avoids traps.
They say that a dog can be trained to fetch objects.
They say that a dog never steps on a cursed object.
They say that a spear will hit a Dragon.
They say that a spear will hit a Xorn.
They say that a spear will hit a neo-otyugh. (Do YOU know what that is?)
They say that a spear will hit an ettin.
They say that a two-handed sword misses.
They say that a unicorn might bring you luck.
They say that an elven cloak may be worn over your armor.
They say that an elven cloak protects against magic.
They say that dead lizards protect against a cockatrice.
They say that killing a shopkeeper brings bad luck.
They say that monsters never step on a scare monster scroll.
They say that only david can find the zoo!
They say that the use of dynamite is dangerous.
They say that there is a big treasure hidden in the zoo!
They say that there is a message concealed in each fortune cookie.
They say that there is a trap on this level!
They say that throwing food at a wild dog might tame him.
They say that you cannot trust scrolls of rumour.
They say that you need a key in order to open locked doors.
Third Law of Hacking: the last blow counts most.
This is the Leprechaun Law: every purse has a price.
Throwing food at a wild dog might tame him.
Tin openers are rare indeed.
To hit or not to hit, that is the question.
Travel fast, use some magic speed!
Tripe on its own is revolting,  but with onions it's delicious!
Try hacking in the wee hours: you will have more room.
Vampires hate garlic.
Visitors are requested not to apply genocide to shopkeepers.
WARNING from H.M. Govt:  Quaffing may be dangerous to your health.
Watch your steps on staircases.
Wear armor, going naked seems to offend public decency in here.
What do you think would be the use of a sword called "Orcrist" ?
When a piercer drops in on you, you will be tempted to hit the ceiling!
When in a shop, do as shopkeepers do.
When punished, watch your steps on the stairs!
Why would anybody in his sane mind engrave "Elbereth" ?
You are heading for head-stone for sure.
You are just the kind of bad food some monsters like to digest.
You can always wear an elven cloak.
You can't leave a shop through the back door: there ain't one!
You cannot trust scrolls of rumour.
You feel greedy and want more gold? Why don't you try digging?
You feel like someone is pulling your leg.
You may have a kick from kicking a little dog.
You might cut yourself on a long sword.
You need a key in order to open locked doors.
You want to regain strength? Two levels ahead is a guesthouse!
You offend Shai-Hulud by sheathing your crysknife without having drawn blood.
You'll need a spear if you want to attack a Dragon.
You've got to know how to put out a yellow light.
Zapping a wand of Nothing Happens doesn't harm you a bit.
