These programs are not meant for machines with limited address space.

Things to change
	nodes.h
		PATH - defines path to where site data (from mod.map) is kept
		HOME - defines the name of your site as known by the world
		TREEPATH - defines where to save the tree of sites
		HASHPATH - defines where to save index into SITEPATH
		SITEPATH - defines where to save list of sites
		NEIGHPATH - defines where to save list of neighbors of sites
		WEIGHPATH - defines where to save costs
Also, I suggest that you #define VERBOSE, at least the first time you
run parse & path (building the tree takes quite a long time),
this way you can see something happening.
Parse and path each take about 20 minutes to run on a vax (with 8 users).
Path should not be run in the background since after it is finished building
the tree, it asks for input (which site you want a path to).
Parsing and building the tree are a one time deal. From that point
on path will just load the tree.

Path:
	upon building a new tree of sites, path will most likely
NOT be able connect all the sites.  Typically about 50 to 100 sites
(out of over 5200) do not get connected.  Path will print out how
many sites it was not able to connect.

	If you build the site tree with a site other than yours
as the root and save the tree then the next time path is loaded,
it will rebuild and save the tree with your site as the root.  To
prevent this, you must pass to path the site (ie path blah) which
you want as the root site.

	In path, you will be prompted with "Dest: ." Path will
then find what it thinks is the quickest path to the specified
site.  Once it prints the path, you will be prompted again. To
exit type ctrl-d.


Parse:
	Parse does the best it can in parsing the UUCP maps.
Several sites decided not to conform to the standard format
and as a result may not be in the data files created by parse.

Parse must be run before path.



Steve Weiss,  John Buck
Polytechnic Institute of NY
Route 110
Farmingdale, NY 11735

polyof!steve
