f	This command flips the PROGRAM menu display to and from
f	the current workbench and the [CONTROL] menu.
p	This command chages the workbench displayed in PROGRAM menu
p	to the one just above.  For example, the menu just above
p	[C Programming] is [Programming], and the one just above
p	[Programming] is the highest level one, [UNIX].
a	This command lets you take a short diversion from your
a	current workbench.  It saves the name of the current workbench,
a	tells you in the feedback window the name of the workbench
a	you are diverting from, and places you in the [UNIX] workbench.
a	From there, you can type a sequence of keys to call any program,
a	but after the program is called, you will be returned to the
a	workbench you started from.  Commands executed on a diversion are
a	not entered into the displayed history variables, 1-9, but are hidded
a	in variable 0.  You can return to your saved workbench
a	prematurely by repeating this command.
u	This command puts you back in the [UNIX] (highest level) workbench.
c	This command lets you change directory to a directory you specify
c	in the line-editor at the bottom of the MENUNIX display.  You can
c	type the name of a directory, or the name of a variable.
0	This command changes you to your parent directory.  For example,
0	if you are in /csl/bin/doc, typing this command will put you in
0	/csl/bin.  Typing it once again will put you in /csl.
+	This command changes the FILE menu display to the next page of
+	files.  If you are on the last page of the directory, this
+	command will "wrap around" to the first page.
-	This command changes the FILE menu display to the previous page of
-	files.  If you are on the first page of the directory, this
-	command will "wrap around" to the last page.
r	This command redisplays the MENUNIX screen.
d	This command switches you to the documentation perspective
d	do that any command you make will get documentation on that
d	command instead of executing it.
s	This command allows you to type in commands that will get
s	executed as though they were typed outside MENUNIX in the
s	UNIX command line interpreter, the shell (sh not csh).
s	The command you run will not be put on display in the history
s	list of variables (1-9) but will be silently stored in variable 0.
v	This command allows you to set the value of variables.  You will
v	be asked for the name of the variable in the line-editor, and
v	if this variable exists, you will be put in the line-editor with
v	its current value, otherwise, you will be editing an empty line.
v	This command is useful for editing the history list of commands,
v	stored in the variables 1 through 9.  The variable 0 always
v	contains the last command you ran, even if it is not displayed.
i	This command lets you find the values of strings including
i	variables, or the values of all the variables so far set.
