Last revised April 18, 1981.

On the left top of your screen is the PROGRAM MENU.
The PROGRAM MENU contains programs, and workbenches of more programs.
These workbenches have been organized so that related commands are grouped together.
PROGRAM MENUS are always in [square] brackets.
Selecting a PROGRAM MENU (by typing the character on its left)
results in you jumping into that workbenches.
Selecting a program causes its execution
(you may be asked to supply information on a line at the bottom
of the screen).

At the very top of the PROGRAM MENU is the name of the workbenches you are in.
You start off in the PROGRAM MENU.
A very important workbench is [CONTROL]
which you can see by typing & (ampersand).
[CONTROL] has commands available at all parts of the PROGRAM MENU,
commands that let you control MENUNIX.
One such command is . which always puts you back where you started:
the UNIX workbench.

On the right top of your screen is the FILE MENU.
The FILE MENU contains both plain files and directories of files.
Selecting a plain file causes you to edit it.
Selecting a directory causes you to go into that directory.
Directories are identified by being followed by a slash/.
At the very top of the FILE MENU is the complete path name
of your current working directory.
On its left is something like 1/4,
which tells which "page" of how many you are on in the current
directory.
You can see subsequent pages by typing + and previous pages by typing -.
You can change to the next directory up by typing a 0 (zero).
These commands should all be listed in the CONTROL MENU.

In the lower middle of the screen is your history of comands
executed from the PROGRAM MENU.
The variables, $1 through $9 contain the commands you executed
(as seen by the operating system).
You can repeat commands by typing the "Shell Command"
character, !, followed by a command.
This command can be a new command, or it can be a variable
(for example, !$1 repeats the last command),
or it can be a combination of variables and new text.
There are some predefined variables that are of general use:
dir is the current directory, user is your name,
home is your login directory, mail is your mail spool file,
and menu is the name of your menu directory.
You can examine the variables available by typing a #
and MENUNIX will ask you for a string (which can include variables)
or you can just type RETURN and all the variables will be printed.

When you are typing in text (such as when you are supplying arguments,
you will often want to type in file names.
A quick way of enterning file names is by typing an underscore _,
which temporarily puts you in a special mode where you can
select file names with the numbers beside them.
In this mode,
you can go forward and backward on the pages of the current directory
with + and - respectively.
