DECWRL archive server version 1.0	27 Feb 87	Brian Reid

This distribution is the first released version of my archive server. While
the server runs fine here, I don't know how good a job I've done of packaging
it up for export. We run Ultrix 1.2 here, which is roughly equivalent to
4.2 or 4.3 BSD. There are places in the server code that use "rsh" and
"ruptime", which are BSD-only commands, but there are comments nearby that
explain what is going on to help you fix it at your site. As far as I know
I've used no other BSD-specific commands.

The file AQenqueue uses a program called "date+" (included here as date+.c)
whose only purpose is converting the current time to a large integer to
generate queue filenames, in order to guarantee FIFO-ness of the queue for
files with the same size. If you can't get date+ to work, then just forget it
and use some constant string.

To set up the server, first edit the file "list" to contain the right
configuration information for your site. I have never tested it without the
various queue and bin directories being subdirectories of #HOME#, but it
might work if they are not.

Now go into files AQenqueue.X and AQindex.X and edit the big "case"
statements in them so that the names of the files to which you would like
server access are covered. For example, if you would like people to be able
to send server commands saying
	send fruit apples canteloupes
then you need to have an entry that says
	fruit) Dir="FruitDir";;
where #HOME#/FruitDir is the name of the directory in which there will be
files named, e.g., "apples" and "canteloupes".

When you have done this, type
	make configure
in this directory. Then, as root, type 
	make install

Finally you must add aliases in your /usr/lib/aliases file that route
mail to the server mailbox into your program. For example, we use these:
	archive-server:"|/udir/recipes/incoming-archive-request"
	archive-management: reid

Brian Reid
DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto CA
reid@decwrl.DEC.COM	-or-	{ihnp4,ucbvax,decvax,sun,pyramid}!decwrl!reid
