From bsa@ncoast.UUCP (The WITNESS) Mon Sep 24 23:07:49 1984
Relay-Version: version B 2.10.2 9/17/84; site plus5.UUCP
Posting-Version: version B 2.10.1 6/24/83; site ncoast.UUCP
Path: plus5!gang!wuphys!busch!we53!mgnetp!ihnp4!mhuxj!ulysses!allegra!mit-eddie!genrad!decvax!cwruecmp!atvax!ncoast!bsa
From: bsa@ncoast.UUCP (The WITNESS)
Newsgroups: net.sources
Subject: `ctree' - a tiny conference tree (in Bourne shell!)
Message-ID: <348@ncoast.UUCP>
Date: 25 Sep 84 03:07:49 GMT
Date-Received: 29 Sep 84 02:15:13 GMT
Organization: North Coast XENIX, Cleveland
Lines: 491

I don't expect that this program will win any awards or be widely used,
but it is a curio I wrote that might interest a few people on the net.
After having run a BBS on ncoast for public use, then taking it down
to fix many many bugs in the thing, I got lots of complaints through
the gripe login from people who wanted their BBS back.  Since the original
BBS was a conference-oriented type (not as general as CommuniTree but
more so than most in that there was no fixed number of conferences and
anyone could create a new one at any time), I sought a conference-oriented
replacement.  This set of shell scripts (and a few C programs) is the
result.  Most of it could probably be coded into C, but I didn't feel
like writing a recursive directory descender, so I cheated and used the
find command from the shell.

This beastie is slow, but it works.  You might like this thing even if
it's too slow to be practical.

Anyway, here it is, as a shar archive.  Being itself a set of shell scripts,
it has been written to autoinstall itself.  Just run the archive through
sh and watch it fly.  (Put the shar archive in a directory other than
the one in which you want the actual utree to go -- it will work the
other way, but give lots of spurious error messages from cp.)  The C
programs are simple and should require no modification; they were coded
in C for speed, not utility.  `linelist' miht be a good general utility
as well.

Oh -- one last thing:  it was designed under Xenix and uses V7 standard
stuff only.  I THINK it will run on anything later than V7, but who knows
for certain until it's been tested?

Enough babbling -- without further ado, I present...

