Relay-Version: version B 2.10.3 4.3bsd-beta 6/6/85; site plus5.UUCP
Posting-Version: version B 2.10.2 9/18/84; site peora.UUCP
Path: plus5!wuphys!wucs!busch!we53!mgnetp!ihnp4!houxm!vax135!petsd!peora!jer
From: jer@peora.UUCP (J. Eric Roskos)
Newsgroups: net.sources
Subject: Domain Routing Routines (cf. net.mail)
Message-ID: <1631@peora.UUCP>
Date: 13 Sep 85 13:26:54 GMT
Date-Received: 14 Sep 85 02:07:27 GMT
Organization: Perkin-Elmer SDC, Orlando, Fl.
Lines: 753
Keywords: RFC-822, UUCP Mail, Pathalias

With a certain amount of reluctance, I am posting the following set of
routines for the translation of RFC822-style mail addresses to net.sources.

These are the routines which I have recently discussed at great length in
net.mail.  See that newsgroup for more information on what they do.

These routines require a DBM-style pathalias database.  Pathalias was posted
a few weeks ago to this newsgroup, by Peter Honeyman.

There are 2 pieces of documentation included.  People familiar with RFC822
should read OPATH(3), which gives a complete explanation.  People who don't
know what RFC822 is should read ADDRESS(1), which gives a very simplified
(and sometimes out-of-date) description of the basic ideas behind RFC822-based
addressing (with simplifications such as in the description of what a
"domain" is).

These routines are intended to be included in a UUCP transport-mechanism
mailer (oupath() serves this role), or in a user interface (opath() serves
this function).  The typical way to invoke them is:

From a user interface:
	route=opath(address);

From a transport-level mailer:
	if (index(address,"!")) /* better tests are possible */
		route=oupath(address);
	else
		route=opath(address);

These programs are posted in answer to the assertion that rational
principles of routing using existing mailers are "an academic exercise at
best".  They have been working here for nearly a year.

Note that someone at another site is working on a mailer which will include
these; if you don't have source code for your mailer, you may want to use
his, when it is completed.  AT&T's UUCP Project is also shortly going to
come out with a mailer, which may or may not be compatible with this
software.

Gateways named in the sample domain table provided are not necessarily
valid gateways, nor necessarily those you should use at your site.



#	This is a shell archive.
#	Remove everything above and including the cut line.
#	Then run the rest of the file through sh.
#-----cut here-----cut here-----cut here-----cut here-----
:
