This directory contains the sources for a version of MACRO assembly language
for the PDP-11.  It produces Version 6 Unix executables that run under 
the compatibility package on the vax.  They are essentially unmodified from
those distributed on the 2nd Unix Users group distribution tape from Harvard.
The only change was to make dates on listings work beyond 1979.  A minimal
amount of work on a VAX could make a version runnable on Version 7 unix on
a PDP-11 should anyone want it.  The later mods implemented in the 4th 
Unix Users group tape were not implemented due to sloth.  The compatibility
package allows exec's, and macro and linkr both exec the cross reference
post processor to do cross references (see exec.m11).  The make file is clumsy
but it works.  "Make all" takes of order 2 1/2 - 3 minutes of cpu on a 11/780.
Currently the MACRO version of the cross reference generator doesn't work.
Macro and linkr invoke /usr/local/macxrf,  which is made from macxrf.c.
Macxrf is slow and has not been tested thoroughly, it could use a heap
sort and become a lot faster, but making cross reference listings for PDP-11
macro programs isn't a significant part of our load - hope it isn't of yours.
The make file DOES NOT make the appropriate changes (via sed or something)
corresponding to redefining BINDIR in the make file - this must be done by
hand (see exec.m11).  The current binaries expect to find the file sysmac.sml
in the directory /etc/macro - if it is not there and readable they will not
work (see mac.m11 - this is a mess).  Make setup will put it there if the
"maker" has the appropriate write permissions.  The macro and linkr in this
directory are one line shell files that invoke the compatibilty package v6run
relative to the current directory (../compat/v6run).  Presumably you will
want to install their equivalent in ${BINDIR}.  I don't have and don't want
the ddt stuff - I didn't remove it, so in case you have it and can find it
it might (!!) work.  I apologize for the manual pages not being in nroff 
format, I didn't get them that way either.

						Josh Knight, Stanford
