/*% cat %
This is the base of the TIPs (Tilbrook Information Processing system).
Every subdirectory has a Read_me file.
They should be read before going on.
There should be nine directories contained in this directory.

DIRECTORIES:

bin      - directory to hold binaries
hd       - header files
help.d   - online documentation used in interactive query
man      - manual entries
mlib     - common subroutines
olib     - directory for source.o files
qed.d    - Qed data base editting programs
source   - major source modules
testdb   - example TIPs data base -- Unix kernel data dictionary

FILES:

Makefile - PWB make script to make the system

PATHNAME repl change lines:

Provided in the individual subdirectories' Read_me's.

NOTES:
I suggest that you read the TIPs manual sections before proceeding.

	cd man
	ar x Cont.a
	: following produces suggested reading order
	nroff -ma intro.t makeprof.t profinfo.t query.t list.t
	nroff -ma tpl.t mktpl.t dumptpl.t dbed.t

The Intro.t section contains Installation information.

The next steps should include

	cd hd; ar x Cont.a
	cd ../mlib; ar x Cont.a
	cd ../source; ar x Cont.a

Fix up any path names in `hd'.
Note there is a file hd/getcbuf.h -- structure for getc.

In mlib, note that there is a printf, and a fprintf.
Some special features of these modules are required.
The additional features are equivalent to the Stdio versions.

Note that there is kmakefile and a Makefile.
kmakefile is input to kmake.  The Makefile just calls kmake.
Kmake is used because it understands archives and the individual
modification times for archive members.

[If you know how to do the equivalent with Make, please phone ASAP.]

Kmake is in ../s1

Once mlib is ready -- objects are archived into lib,
lets deal with source.

The Read_me in that directory should be able to help you
get through this part.
The resulting *.o files are moved to olib.

olib has a makefile that will put the 6 modules together,
and put the resulting binaries in bin.

In order to test your progress, a sample TIPs data base is stored in testdb.
It happens to be a the data dictionary of procedures in the UNIX/PWB kernel.

After you get Makeprof, Profinfo, Query, List, Mktpl, Dumptpl, and Tpl working,
(thats the recommended order),
dearchive and set up the help.d files.

NOTE: Profiles and Template object modules both have magic numbers.
You might want to change File (I).
