This is a much modified version of the public domain spread sheet vc,
posted a year or two ago by Mark Weiser, orginally by James Gosling.

Changes since my last version:

1) Much linting for those who reported coredumps.  This version should
   be more portable.  On our 4.3 system, lint only complains about some
   functions whose values are always ignored.  On the 5.2 system it
   also complains about some hidden variables.  This is normal.  Yacc
   will complain about 14 shift reduce conflicts.  This is also normal.
2) The @avg bugs are fixed.
3) I added a "^" command to go to row 0
4) Trig and other math functions added.
5) Assorted bug fixes and cleanup.
6) Use crmode() instead of raw() for BSD
7) A couple of new region commands (erase and fill)
8) More cursor movement commands (goto and #)
9) All function names are unique within the first 7 characters.
10) More precision is retained in the saved files.

Due to some trademark name problems, I have changed the name back to
Gosling's original, sc.  I have modified the makefile to make it easy
for you to call it what you want (I saw at least five different names
in correspondence and on the net).  Just change "name=sc" to
"name=myfavoritename" and try "make myfavoritename".

Similarly, you can make the documentation with "make myfavoritename.man".
"make install" will make and install the code in EXDIR.  The
installation steps and documentation all key off of the name.  The
makefile even changes the name in the nroffable man page.  If you don't
have nroff, you will have to change sc.man yourself.

The code has been tested against a Vax running 4.2 and 4.3 and a National
ICM-3216 with system V.2.  The ICM has a National Semi 32016.  Just
check the makefile for the system flags.   I have heard reports of lots
of other machines which work.  I have added ifdefs for system III and for
Berkely 4.3.  If you have problems with lex.c, and don't care about arrow
keys, define SIMPLE (-DSIMPLE in the makefile).  SIMPLE causes the arrow
keys to not be used.

Many thanks to all of the kind souls who wrote with fixes and bug reports.
In particular, my "beta" testers, Kim Rochat and Dave Shanks, and to Eric
Goldman for the floating point stuff.

Disclaimer:

Sc is not a product of National Semiconductor.  It is supplied as is with
no warrenty, express or implied, as a service to Usenet readers.

					Bob Bond

    Robert Bond 			ihnp4!nsc!nscpdc!rgb
    National Semiconductor		tektronix!nscpdc!rgb
