This is the new network blackjack game.  I've fixed a couple bugs,
added some statistic reporting, and added an arrows/inverse
option.  I do not have access to a network with both Suns and
VAXes so I do not know if the game can be played between a Sun and
a VAX, although I do know that it works on a network of Suns and on
a network of VAXes.  The old game definitely would not work between
a Sun and a VAX because of byte order problems (I think).  I've been
informed that dealer needs to be setuid root on an Ultrix machine
'cause DEC made some syscall privilidged or something like that.  
Oh yeah, I fixed the man page so it reflects the -arrows and hostname
arguments that bj accepts.


----------------OLD README FOLLOWS------------------

There's not much to this.  If you can edit /etc/services, then define
ROOTPRIV in the Makefile, otherwise don't.  Add a line like:

blackjack	1025/tcp	dealer		# network blackjack

to /etc/services if you defined ROOTPRIV, otherwise edit defs.h and define
PORT to be an unused port address.  Define BARNEYS if you want to play
with all cards face up like they do on the second floor of Barneys in
South Lake Tahoe.  Then type make, and if everything
works, fire up the server in the background (dealer &), and attach to
it with bj.  Please mail bug reports to me (jon@msunix.UUCP).  No
complaints about code quality!  If anyone wants to make it work under
the inetd, have fun.  I wasted about two hours last night trying and
gave up.  I wrote a program called "pitboss" which listened for udp
packets at another port address, and forked dealer, and modified bj
to connect to pitboss first, but I couldn't get it to work.  Who
cares?

This program is known to work on a Sun-2/120 w/Sun 2.0, a Sun-2/130
w/Sun 3.0, and a DEC VAX-11/785 w/4.2 BSD.  Masscomps will need
work, but it shouldn't be too bad.  Non-4.[23]BSD boxes will have
to have all the network code rewritten, serves you right.  You
could probably extract a single user bj out of it, though.  Have
fun.



"If we did it like everyone else,	  Jonathan Hue
what would distinguish us from		  Via Visuals Inc.
every other company in Silicon Valley?"	  sun!sunncal\
						      >!leadsv!msunix!jon
"A profit?"				amdcad!cae780/
