@(#)README	1.3	9/23/86
@(#) Ronald S. Karr
@(#) National Semiconductor, Sunnyvale

	The files in this distribution comprise a set of programs
	and sample data files for the generation of a paths file
	for use with smail or other mailers that can use the data
	generated by pathalias.

	To configure the system for your site, write some local
	connections maps in some files in this directory, write
	a dead, forces and local.map file, using the samples as
	guidelines, and edit the Makefile to reflect your current
	domain configuration.

The files in this directory:

Documentation

 README
	This file.


Files used for generating local connection paths

 domain.com.samp
	The connection map for the top level of the DOMAIN.COM domain.
	A path file is generated for this independently of the
	the path file generation for external references.  Then,
	the paths in this file are merged into the normal paths
	file, overriding any of its paths.

 sub.domain.com.samp
	The connection map for the local subdomain of the domain
	DOMAIN.COM.  This is used concurrently with the domain.com
	file for path generation.

 local.paths
	The paths computed from pathalias operating upon domain.com
	and sub.domain.com.


Files used for generating external connection paths

 oursite.samp
	The external connection map for this host.  This should
	only contain information for machines talking to other
	machines outside of the DOMAIN.COM domain and should not
	contain information on connections within the DOMAIN.COM
	domain.

 local.map.samp
	General connection map that contains information which
	we know about, but which is not broadcast.  This can also
	be used to give lower values to connections, so that
	they will be used in preference to other connections.
	This file is used concurrently with external maps path
	generation.

 dead.samp
	A list of links we consider to be dead, thus overriding
	whatever anybody else says.

 extern.paths.samp
	The paths computed from the USENET maps and the above
	files.


Other files
 forces.samp
	A file of explicit paths to override any paths computed
	by Pathalias.
 Makefile.FORM
	A makefile for generating the complete path database
	in /usr/lib/uucp/paths{,.dir,.pag}.  Also generates
	the intermediate file local.paths and stripdom.
 stripdom.c
	Source for a program that filters pathalias output to
	generate multiple lines for each hostname having the
	form:

		host.xx.domain.com

			to make these names equivalent:

		host.xx
		host.xx.domain
		host.xx.domain.com

	Alternate domains to simplify can be specified in the
	Makefile.
 pathmerge.c
	Source for a program to take multiple sorted path files
	as input files and produce on the standard output one path
	to all machines listed, with preference given to paths
	in the first files referenced in the argument list.

	At present, this program does not work correctly when
	given more than two input files.  However, pathmerge
	can be cascaded as shown in Makefile.
