
> Here is a complete, working Othello game in C (also known as Reversi) with
> N-move lookahead.  It is about 1300 lines and about 38K long.  I'm not a unix
> wizard and I don't know how to use makefiles and stuff so I am
> just putting the whole thing in one file.  I hope this doesn't
> upset anyone with a small buffer.  But even my Apple II has a 26K
> buffer, so anyone with a computer big enough to compile this
> should have no trouble.  Copy it, change it, whatever; just don't
> sell it or remove my name from it.
> 


Well, in the interest of community hacking, I now present a graphics interface
for a Sun workstation running 3.0 or better.

Notes:

The original program was quite well written and very easy to hack.
Congratulations.  This graphics program has a few quirks (I could never get
the shape of the circles quite right), but perhaps I'll send an improved
version later.  Whaddya want for one day's hacking.

By the way, that was the first program I EVER got off the net that compiled
and ran the first time.

The shell archive I'm posting has a few files in it:

A diffs file.
A make file
A modified version of othello.c
An include file: othello.h
The graphics program: otool.c
An icon: othello.icon

The diffs file describes the differences between the original program
and this version.  Basically, I commented out the main program so that
the file is now a subroutine package.  I commented out all the global
declarations and moved them into the include file.  There are also two
bug fixes in the subroutines "init_gamelog" and "erase_board", neither
of which were serious unless you change the game to play new games without
being restarted.

To build: unpack the archive and type "make"  This generates "otool" which
you run under suntools.

Putting it into "auto" mode is a good time.

One more suggestion: Someone should spend some time optimizing the search
algorithm.  At any level of difficulty past 2, it's too slow.  Not that it
matters; it can usually beat me at level 0.


