.TH Command : DELIVER
.s1
The deliver command is used to specify to which sector
the various commodities in a sector
will be delivered at each update.
.s3
The general form is:
.EX deliver (item) (sects) <thresh>
where (sects) is the sector or sectors from which the deliveries
are made, (item) is one of the following:
.NF +3
c	civilians
m	military
s	shells
g	guns
p	planes (believe it or not)
o	ore (not gold ore, though)
b	bars of gold
.FI
and <thresh> can be one of three optional arguments.
.s3
A numeric argument in parentheses, "(thresh)", specifies a minimum amount to
be left in each delivering sector.
.s3
For example, "(64)" specifies that only the amount in excess of 64
can be delivered.  This is particularly handy in cases where you wish
to maintain some stock in a given sector but pass along any extra to
an adjoining sector.
.s3
A numeric argument preceded by a plus sign, "+thresh", specifies that all
thresholds in the specified area should be set to the thresh value and no
delivery destinations should be changed.
.s3
A thresh argument of "-" requests a list of deliveries and thresholds
for all sectors in the specified area and changes nothing.
This is the only way to examine the delivery thresholds.
.s1
Except in the "+thresh" and "-" cases described above,
the program asks the destination for each sector's delivery of the
designated item.
.s1
The destination must be specified as the x,y of one of the eight
surrounding sectors or just a carriege return, (in which case the
delivery will not be changed in that sector).
.s1
You may also specify a threshold at this time which will override
any threshold specified by the command arguments by following the
destination with a number in parentheses.
.s1
The census report will indicate deliveries by the numbers 0 - 7 in the
"codes" column. 0 indicates a delivery to the north, 1 to the northeast,
2 to the east, etc.
.s3
If, when accessing the sector has caused an update to be performed,
and the destination sector is not owned by you the message "delivery
walkout between x,y & x,y" will be printed and none will be delivered
UNLESS the destination sector is checkpointed in which case delivery
will proceed normally.  This facilitates exchange of goods between
adjoining countries.
.s1
Delivery routes may also be mapped out with the "route" command.

See also : census, route, innards, syntax
