.\"     N O T E : this file is linked as both "sector-types" & "sectors"
.TH Empire Sector Designations
.NF 3

.ti +10
Basics
\&.  sea               ^  mountain          s  sanctuary
-  wilderness        c  capital           u  urban area

.ti +10
Industries
d  defense plant     i  shell ind.        m  mine
g  gold mine         h  harbor            w  warehouse
*  airfield          a  agribusiness (farm)

.ti +10
Military / Scientific
t  technical center  f  fortress          r  research lab

.ti +10
Communications
+  highway           )  radar station     !  weather station
#  bridge head       =  bridge span

.ti +10
Financial
b  bank              x  exchange
.FI
.s1
-sea- Sea sectors form natural barriers that can
only be crossed by ships (made in harbors, below).
You can
not designate anything else to be sea nor sea to be anything
else.
.s1
-mountain- Mountain sectors form another natural
barrier that cannot be redesignated; however, they can be
moved through (at great expense in terms of mobility units).
.s1
-sanctuary- Sanctuary sectors are created when
a new nation is created.
They are inviolate in that no one
can fire at them or attack them.
This protection ends
when the new country first moves out of the sanctuary
(called "breaking sanctuary"); the sector then becomes a capital.
.s1
-wilderness- Most of the world is wilderness
at the beginning of the game.
Wilderness has no particular
attributes; you can move into it if unoccupied, thereby
making it your territory, but will probably want to
designate it as something else once you own it.
.s1
-capital- Capitols are the source of bureaucracy
time units (B.T.U.s) they accrue in proportion to the efficiency
of the capital and the number of civilians at work in
it.
If a country has a 100% efficient capital with 100
civilians in it B.T.U.s will accrue at the rate of 4 per
hour.
Most commands use up B.T.U.s, (see "list of commands" for numbers of
B.T.U.s used per command).
A nation may only have
one active capital at a time (although many sectors may be
designated as capitals).
The last sector designated as a
capital is the currently active one.
If an active capital
is captured by an attack a new one must be designated by the
victim.
Capitols are twice as efficient at defending
against attack as other sectors (except fortresses).
.s1
-urban area- Urban areas are cities.
People move
into and out of cities in groups of 10 (families).
An urban
sector can hold up to 1270 civilians but only 127 military.
The urban area consumes ore in providing essential services
for the city-dwellers leaving them more time to "fool
around" therefore the birth rate in cities is particularly
high.
However, if no ore is supplied to an urban area the
lack of essential services allows the death rate to be
as high as the birth rate.
.s1
-defense plant- In these sectors ore is turned into
guns, going through the intermediate form of "production
units".
It takes 10 units of ore and 5 hours in a 100%
efficient defense plant with 100 civilians working in it to
produce 10 units of production ( or 10 hours for 50 civil,
etc).
It takes 10 units of production to make a gun.
The rate at which ore is converted to production is
dependent on the efficiency of the sector, the number of
civilians in the sector and the presence of ore.
Only 127
production units can be kept in any one sector so if there
is ore and 127 production units already in a "d" sector
the production of guns ceases until the production units are
converted into guns (see info "innards") and the
message "production backlog in x,y" is printed.
.s1
-shell industry- These sectors are similar to defense
plant sectors except they turn ore into production into
shells.
It takes 2 units of production to produce one shell
and the maximum number of shells that can be kept in
one sector is 127; in case of overflow, production stops
and "production bottleneck in x,y" is printed.
One shell
is used each time you fire, (except for submarines which use three
shells to make one torpedo).
.s1
-mine- Ore comes from mines.
The rate at which
it is produced is dependent on three factors; the efficiency
of the mine, the number of civilians working
in the mine, and the mineral sample for the sector ("min"
on the census report).
Mines start producing ore at
about 60% effic, assuming a reasonably high mineral sample
and 80-100 civilians.
.s1
-gold mine- Gold mines are similar to ordinary
mines, (above), except that they dig up gold ore and
include a smelter to refine the ore to gold bars.
The raw ore can not be transported to any sector other than gold mines as
in the case of ordinary minerals.
Gold ore is a non-renewable resource; a gold mine
with a 70% gold sample can only yield 140 units of gold ore
after which it will have a 0% gold sample.
One half unit of gold
mineral converts to one unit of ore which converts to one
unit of production which converts to 1/5 of a gold bar (see
info "innards" for further specifics).
.s1
-harbor- Harbors combine shipyard facilities and
docks.
Ore is turned into production in harbors to build
ships and the ships can be loaded and unloaded in the harbor.
The rate at which production units are generated
depends on efficiency and civilian workforce as in other
industries.
Ships are built using the "build" command, (see "info build").
Ships vary in their "production cost";
p.t. boats require 30 production units whereas battleships
require 127 (see info "ship-types" for further info).
.s1
-warehouse- Warehouses are used to store shells,
guns, and ore.
These items are stored in lots of ten (containerized)
so that they may be moved more cheaply (costing
1/10 as many mobility units).
Note that moving 19 shells
into a warehouse will only result in a lot of ten being
stored, with the other 9 being returned to the originating sector.
.s1
-airfield- Airfields are where planes are built (ore becomes
production, becomes planes).
Airfields are also particularly
good for landing and taking off, and as a matter of fact it is
virtually impossible to take off from any other sector, although
you can often land in other sectors.
.s1
-agribusiness- These sectors are large farms and provide food.
Food is currently not implemented.
.s1
-technology center- These sectors are actually universities with
massive defense department grants.
They turn ore into production
units into technological advances thereby raising the technology
level of the country (which affects gun ranges and pollution).
.s1
-fortress- Fortress sectors have many
special characteristics; you can fire guns from fortresses,
whenever an attack is launched from a fort or on
a fort the military in the fort are stronger than military
in any other type of sector by an amount proportional to
the efficiency of the fort. e.g. 100 military in a wilderness
attacking a 100% efficient fort that has 25 military
gives even odds.
.s1
-research lab- The research lab is a bastion
of "pure" medical research which is to say it is a large university
with massive March-of-Dimes funding.
The research lab turns ore into production units into medical
discoveries which raise the research level of the country and
help retard the spread of disease, (usually caused by the pollution
from technical centers).
.s1
-highway- Whenever you move civilians, ore, gold,
etc, mobility units ("mu" on the census) are consumed dependent
on how far and how much you move.
If the movement is
over 100% efficient highway however it costs nothing to
move.
In addition, highway sectors are useful for international
trade in that any nation may move onto and/or
from highway sectors owned by any other nation unless the
sector has been checkpointed (see "info checkpoint").
.s1
-radar- Radar stations can scan the surrounding
area (up to 6 units away for 100% efficiency) and generate
a radar plot identifying sector types at distances up to 1/3
their range and ships up to their full range.
.s1
-weather station- Weather stations are used to
forecast the weather conditions at any particular spot or
spots for a given time in the future.
The area for which
they can predict is governed by their efficiency and the
length of time in the future that they can foresee is dependent
on the size of their civilian staff.
.s1
-bridge head- Bridge heads are the land based ends of bridges.
They, like harbors, turn ore into units of production which are then
used to build bridge spans.
.s1
-bridge span- A bridge span is the suspended part of a bridge that
crosses water sectors.  They are built and supported by bridge heads
and are much like highways except for two things:
(1) Bridge spans can't
even provide the minimal amount of food that any other land sector provides,
therefore civilians or military left on bridges for long periods of
time will slowly die off, (negative population growth).
(2) Bridge spans must maintain at least 20% efficiency or else they
collapse.
.s1
-bank- Banks are of the fort knox variety; they
are more impervious to shelling than any other sector and
military in them fight twice as hard against attack as those
in industries.
Banks are also particularly adept at moving
gold bars around; bars are moved and stored in groups of four and
half as many mobility units are required
to move a gold bar out of a bank as anywhere else.
.s1
-exchange- Exchanges are the trading posts of empire,
they are used to put commodities up for sale and to buy those
being sold by other countries, (see "info trade").
.s1
.s3
See also : designate
