Path: plus5!wuphys!wucs!we53!ltuxa!cuae2!ihnp4!mhuxn!mhuxr!ulysses!allegra!princeton!caip!think!mit-eddie!genrad!decvax!wanginst!ulowell!rickheit
From: rickheit@ulowell.UUCP (Erich W Rickheit)
Newsgroups: net.sources.bugs
Subject: search (yet again...)
Message-ID: <486@ulowell.UUCP>
Date: 23 Jun 86 19:12:55 GMT
Reply-To: rickheit@ulowell.UUCP (Erich W Rickheit)
Distribution: net
Organization: University of Lowell
Lines: 41
Keywords: search, grep
Summary: busted!
Posted: Mon Jun 23 14:12:55 1986


	I'm afraid the new version of search isn't much better. Another
example:

%grep druid Net.games.frp
>  Well, druids are neutral types, and so would probably not take sides in
>such a battle, unless one side were attempting to destroy a forest or a druid
Bullswhaggle!!  The druids historically WHEREVER they existed were a deeply
So, just as when the Merlin (chief high archdruid, for all you who didn't know)
helped train Arthur Pendragon up to be the King for England, the druids not
Oh, sputter, but, fume, the druids are the guardians of *Nature* (chirp, tweet)
you tell me?   Well, in fact, the druids were the intercessors between man and
weather.  (Note, oh unbeliever, that since the druids stopped so doing, that
The druids, and their chosen men, were the ONLY ones allowed to participate
The traditional role of druids as cultural arbiters and intercessors with
that the  druids worship specific (almost random) deities which have Nature
needful that we have a place where the druids really DO have the traditional
population;  then any druids which wander into the mainstream area where


%search druid Net.games.frp
>such a battle, unless one side were attempting to destroy a forest or a druid
Bullswhaggle!!  The druids historically WHEREVER they existed were a deeply
helped train Arthur Pendragon up to be the King for England, the druids not
Oh, sputter, but, fume, the druids are the guardians of *Nature* (chirp, tweet)
that the  druids worship specific (almost random) deities which have Nature
population;  then any druids which wander into the mainstream area where

	That's a ratio of 13 to 7. I can't even pinpoint what makes it skip
one instance and accept another. Any ideas?
-- 

			a lesser Power of Darkness

   This is indeed an opinion; whose fault it is, I don't know.

		UUCP:   ...wanginst!ulowell!rickheit
		USnail: Erich Rickheit
			85 Gershom Ave, #2
			Lowell, MA 01854
		Phone:  (617) 453-1753
