Port of less to msdos:

Less is a program similar to the Unix more command but is much more
useful. Read less.man for a good description of less and what it can
do for you.

The files included here will result in a full version of less
for use on msdos. This version of less has been tested on all the pc
systems that I could get my hands on. This includes monochrome, graphics,
(that includes systems with graphics cards and mono monitors), and color
graphics.

The following must be done to have less.exe work in its full glory:

	1.	Nothing if you don't want color when using a color monitor.
		To get the color use the set command such as:

			set less=C	(Case sensitive; c is another option)

		Do this prior to calling less. A command line option
		less -C <filename ...> will also get you color.

		NOTE: Only use the color option when using a color monitor.
		All other configurations need no special action.

		There are other less settings that can be used using the
		set command. Read less.man. The one I use is less=mC on
		an AT with enhanced monitor and ega card.

		Read on for the v command.

	2.	Less also has a v command that lets you can an editor from
		within less to edit the file that you are viewing at the
		time. The default is memacs which was taken from the Unix
		mod.sources. If you don't have it use the dos set command
		as follows to let less know which it is:

			set editor=your_editor

	4.	It is best to include the set commands in your autoexec.bat
		which will be executed when you boot up your system.

	5.	Less is a very useful utility. Read less.man and when in
		less the h command will put a description of the commands
		on the screen for you.

	6.	This version of less is named less13.exe for distribution.
		It replaces and other version that you have obtained from
		my posting of the executable. Accept no substitutes. When
		I get the time I will incorporate the changes to get up
		the distributed Unix version 61. If you post this to any
		bulletin board name any files associated with it with the
		version 13.(referring to the MSDOS control)

	7.	Less version 1.3 uses the system function but looks to see
		if you are using the swchar program that allows you to use
		the / rather than the \ character. The swchar state is changed
		before the system call if you are and then resets it so that
		it all becomes transparent to the user.

	8.	The source code for less is being posted to Net.sources.
		It is all ifdef'd so that it should compile on Unix systems
		also as is.

	9.	Version 1.3 corrects the following:
			The latest known to me fixes have been incorporated
			in the regexpression routines written by Henry
			Spencer and posted on the Unix news net.



			Dick Keily
			Eastman Kodak Company
			work: (716)477-1001
			unix: ...!seismo!rochester!kodak!keily

