This directory contains the source code for programs that
either have been developed at AFDSC or have been significantly
modified by AFDSC.

All AFDSC programs (including those originally from Bell) incorporate
our standard command line interpretation code and internal documentation
style.  This is normally not enough of a change to warrant inclusion on
this distribution tape.

The short description that follows tells what changes have been made
to each program:

afar -- archiver combining features of nar, tp, dump, copyall, and cpio.
	A newer version is in the works that uses the cpio global match
	feature and allows the retrieval of a specific file.
arfi -- argument finder that picks words or characters from an input line.
banner -- creates 2 inch letter multiple line banner pages.
bat -- see dequeue.
batch -- puts a command or shell file into the overnight batch queue.
beep -- sends out bells to tell when an event occurs.
clri -- takes multiple inode numbers.
col -- resolves nroff ESC sequences and underscoring for terminals without
	reverse scrolling; uses buffered I/O.
compact -- removes null entries in a directory.
confer -- conference call inter-terminal communication facility.  Similar to
	a multi-user write command.
copyall -- copies a directory and subdirectories.
cost -- prints costs accumulated so far this session.
cp -- copies a file; block size can be specified.
cpall -- copies files to a directory.
cron -- able to handle multiple commands per minute (unlike standard cron)
	by making a shell file of commands for each minute.
date -- friendlier, multiple format input version (Julian, civilian,
	military, alpha month or numeric, slashes or dashes or commas, etc).
dcheck -- incorporates alternate block code.
dd -- new command line syntax (consistent with rest of AFDSC system).
dequeue -- remove or dequeue entries from system queues.  The following programs
	are used on individual queue entries:
	bat -- execute shell file as if a logged in user (with accounting).
	nobat -- execute shell file (no accounting).
	prt -- print file on /dev/lp with banner page and routing info.
	noprt -- print file on terminal with banner page and routine (used
		for local print queues).
	pps -- create Honeywell Page Printing System or IBM 3800 laser
		printer print tape.
df -- incorporates alternate block code.
diablo -- a filter to drive Xerox 1700 or Diablo 1600 terminals at 1200
	baud (via carriage delay optimization and bidirectional printing).
dict -- lets user suggest dictionary updates.
dog -- (another breed of 'cat'?) a filter to get specified lines in a file.
dump -- incorporates alternate block code and disallows incrementals that
	cannot be restored.
echo -- outputs with or without newline, recognizes /n and /t notation,
	can output to standard error output.
edit -- see the documentation, cuz it's greatly enhanced.  Includes an EDX
	interface.
edx -- the screen editor portion of 'edit' (executed solely through edit).
find -- corrected comparisons (mtime, dtime, atime, uid, size).
fire -- (what else would you yell if you needed help?)  Gets parts of 
	documentation for quick reference.  Could be modified to be a double
	ended 'grep' (start and end search strings).
formdict -- see mkdict.
getty -- includes system name in login banner, allows userid with mixed
	uppper and lower case (original did not).
glob -- private bin directory, automatic "usage" message display.
goto -- broadcasts interrupt on error (for onintr command).
icheck -- incorporates alternate block code, optimized freelist, and
	the same algorithm as mkfs.
indent -- C beautifier, quite sophisticated.
link -- link a directory (used to be done with 'ln').  We made this one
	for super-user only and took away the capability from 'ln'.
login -- checks disk quota before allowing user on system; checks for presence
	of mail.
ls -- recursive search added to print structure levels.
maglib -- maintains tape or disk library (owner of tape, contents, format, dates).
mail -- Companion to 'sndmsg'.  Has message forwarding, answering, random
	scanning, return receipts, escape to shell, help.
man -- C version that uses formatted text and parallel system and user
	structures.  Interactive or fully specified on command line.
mediatest -- block device tester.
mkdict -- update dictionary (formdict does the actual work via this shell file).
mkfs -- incorporates alternate block code, optimized freelist algorithm,
	safeguarding of mounted file systems from destruction, and runs as
	a "friendly" process or as a hog.
mknod -- can create series of special files.  Written in C.
mount -- incorporates alternate block code and root rile system lookup.
mvdir -- move a directory around vertically or horizontally.
nar -- "new" archive with AFDSC command line code.
ncheck -- incorporates alternate block code and incremental list capability.
newproj -- switch accounting projects for this session.
nobat -- see dequeue.
noprt -- see dequeue.
nref -- macro cross reference program.
nroff -- triple the diversion space, escape to shell, debug aids, and
	pipe (.pi) takes arguments.
ood -- online octal dump.  Helpful for debugging terminal problems.
phd -- print home directory of user.
post -- create sidewise letters (3-12 inches high) for long posters.
pps -- see dequeue.
pr -- numbered lines, double spaced, pause between pages.
protect -- friendlier chmod for novice users.
prt -- see dequeue.
ps -- interactive sessions, automatic cycling, wait address lookup,
full proc table entry display, resource conservation.
ptx -- permuted index creator.
pwd -- list full path (including mounted file system name) or local directory
	name only.
query -- interactive shell files for non-Yale shells.
queue -- generalized queueing program.
quota -- like du, but counts used blocks in a directory and updates the .quota
	file.  Also tells the user if the limit for that user is exceeded.
restor -- incorporates alternate block code, switch upon tape read error
	between primary and backup dump tapes.
sh -- variables, previous command line editing, interactive
	shell files, project accounting, private bin directory, wait on
	specific process, automatic "usage" message for commands, startup
	file, and mail check every 20 commands.
	This version does NOT have interrupt handling for shell files.
sndmsg -- companion to 'mail'.  Distribution lists, return receipts, message
	editing and formatting, escape to shell, help.
spell -- dictionary lookup program.
stty -- includes AFDSC command line code.
system -- tells you the name and other things about the system you're on.
tab -- replaces groups of spaces with appropriate number of system tabs.
tcat -- preview troff output on Tektronix 4014 screen.
tp -- let's you specify boot block, extract file to standard output, and uses
	mag tape as default.
troff -- triple diversion space, escape to shell, pipe (.pi) takes arguments,
	split output in typesetter sized files, and debug aids.
tty -- rewritten in C and corrected the lookup algorithm (see the tty()
	subroutine).  Old version of subroutine would ignore which device
	your file system was on vs that of /dev and give you erroneous return.
umount -- incorporates standard AFDSC command line code.
unlink -- unlinks a directory, regardless of emptiness.
untab -- changes tabs to appropriate number of spaces.
users -- tells how many users are on system and system load.
who -- gives detailed info about users.
write -- notifies you if user is logged in on multiple lines (to let you
	choose which one to contact), and gives better start and end messages.
