



MAZEWAR is a multi-player maze game with 3-D graphics displays on
machines  which  support the graphics (currently only SUNs).  The
game can be played in two modes, the 'ascii mode'  and  the  'sun
mode.'  The  sun  mode  has  the  addition of a three-dimensional
dungeon view.  Ascii  Mode  The  ascii  mode  is  the  only  mode
available  if  compiled  off  of a sun.  It can also be forced by
giving the -a (for _ascii) flag when on a SUN.  In this mode,  the
screen is dominated by a top view of the maze, which takes up 3/4
of a 24x80 character screen.  Below the maze, is a  list  of  the
players  and  their stats.  On the maze, you appear as a 'pair of
eyes' (composed of the characters '^^', '>>', 'vv', or '<<'), and
all  the  other players appear as small numbers, when you can see
them.  SUN Mode You will see three display areas on your  screen,
a 3-D maze, a top view of the maze, and a list of current players
and their stats.  The top-left 3-D maze view shows you  what  you
can  see  from  your current position in the maze.  Other players
show up as tall triangles.  If the player is facing you, you will
se  him  as  a wide triangle with an eye, if you see his back you
will see the same figure without the eye.   From  the  side,  the
player  will  look  like a thin triangle, with an eye pointing in
the direction he is facing.  The map view shows you your absolute
position  in  the  maze,  and any player you can see in the upper
view.  This helps you orient yourself in the maze,  since  it  is
easy  to  get lost in the 3-D view.  The side stats display shows
the list of active players  and  their  vital  statistics.   Your
player  is  marked  with  an asterisk.  The player numbers on the
stats display correspond with the numbers on the lower  top  maze
view.  Movement The default keys to move around in the maze are:
     w      move forward
     space  move backward
     Q      quit
     a      turn left
     d      turn right
     x      turn around
     s      shoot
     j      peek around the corner to the left
     l      peek around the corner to the right
     k      look straight ahead (if you move this will happen)
All of the keys can be remapped to  any  action  by  setting  the
environment   variable  MAZEWAR_KEYS  to  a  string  composed  of
'<char>=action,<char>=action,...' Remapping keys does  NOT  unmap
the  default  configuration,  if  you  want  to  unmap a key, use
'<char>=undef.' The available  (and  hopefully  self-explanatory)
actions are:
     redraw              forward             shoot
     quit                turn-back           turn-left
     turn-right          peek-left           stop-peek
     peek-right          back-up             undef
The environment variable MAZEWAR_BEEP should be set to the string
'yes',  if  you  want  Mazewar to beep when you press an unmapped
key.  Since this beep is rather annoying, this is NOT the default
action.   Game Strategy Other players will appear in front of you
only if you are facing them.  When you see someone, it is best to
start  shooting.  It  takes  only  one  shot  to  kill  a  player
(bazookas?).  Killing  someone  automatically  gains  you  a  few
generic  score  points.  Getting killed is accompanied with minus
points.  Once you are killed, you will be quickly resurrected  in
another part of the maze.  Authors This game was written by Chris
Guthrie and Nick Lai, and the SUN graphics done  by  John  Coker;
all of University of California, Berkeley.

     chris@BERKELEY [...!ucbvax!chris],
     lai@BERKELEY [...!ucbvax!lai],
     jcoker@BERKELEY [...!ucbvax!jcoker].
































































