
     This tape contains a number  of  separate  utility  programs
that  we  find  useful.   They all compile and run on a "vanilla"
version 7  UNIX  system.   None  of  them  contain  any  licensed
software, and they can be used by anyone who wants them.

     The two most useful programs are p(1)  and  c(1).   No  UNIX
system   is   complete  without  these  two  programs,  or  their
equivalent.  P(1) prints files (or the  standard  input)  on  the
terminal,  one  screen full at a time.  C(1) splits a long output
up into columns, and prints the columns side by side.  It's typi-
cal use is in the pipeline "ls^c".


                        List of Programs

apb       sends it's arguments to everyone  signed  on.   A  more
          convenient form of wall(1).

banner    prints it's arguments  in  large  type,  using  one  of
          several fonts.

c         splits a file (or the standard input) up into  columns,
          and  prints the columns side by side.  Useful as a out-
          put filter for ls and nm.

calls     prints out a static analysis of a C program, indicating
          what routines are called, and from where.

cptree    copies an entire  directory  tree  structure  from  one
          place  to  another,  preserving  ownership,  modes  and
          links.  Invaluable for re-organizing file systems.

cu        is a simple version of the version 7 and  PWB  programs
          of  the  same  name.   It  does  not require a dial-out
          modem.  Useful with yfr (see below).

danl      is used for analyzing system dumps,  to  find  out  why
          UNIX crashed.

home      prints out a user's home directory.  For use  in  shell
          files.

huf       compresses  text  files.   Typically  saves  50-60%  of
          storage.

lastlog   prints out the last time (or times) a user logged on.

mcv       converts manual pages from version 6 macros to  version
          7 macros.

modcheck  prints a message if a particular file has been modified
          since the last time you signed on.

news      used to keep track of the latest news and system infor-
          mation.

p         will print out a file (or the standard input)  at  your
          terminal, one screen full at a time.  Invaluable.

phone     keeps track of phone numbers, both personal and  system
          wide.

po        will move a file (or the standard input)  over  on  the
          page by a given number of spaces.

shutdown  can be used to safely shut down a version 7  UNIX  sys-
          tem, before pressing halt.

where     searches through the manuals to find all commands  that
          mention a given keyword.

wmi       prints out who you are.  Useful in shell files.

x         prints a file, expanding all the unprintable characters
          so you can see them.

yfr       a simple unix to unix  file  transfer  program,  useful
          when you can't be bothered installing uucp.


     The source for all of these programs  is  in  the  src  sub-
directory.   See  src/makefile for details.  The documentation is
in the man sub-directory.

     The sys sub-directory  contains  version  6  and  version  7
copies  of the Case Western Reserve RX02 floppy disk driver, with
a few of the bugs fixed.


                    Dave Galloway
                    Computer Systems Research Group
                    University of Toronto
                    June 22, 1981
