This list presents the differences between the Pascal compiler (version 25) of
april 1979 and the next version of june 1979.  The compiler is adopted to con-
form to the ISO Pascal-standard proposal of february 1979.
Changes:
1   The procedure and function headings of procedural and  functional  parame-
    ters must be specified completely.
2   All upper case letters  are  mapped  onto  the  corresponding  lower  case
    letters.   External proc/func names with upper case letters are not possi-
    ble anymore.
3   A packed array of characters is only compatible with a constant string  if
    the lower bound is 1.
4   A file of char is NOT equivalent to the standard type text.  The  standard
    functions read(ln) and write(ln) only apply to files of type text.
5   The control variable of a for statement must be a local variable.
6   The procedure write is changed somewhat:
      string: if the width specifier w is less than the  string  length,  then
        only the first w characters are written.
      Boolean: true is printed as 'true ', not 'true'.
      real: write(3.141596:8) gives ' 3.1e+00',
        write(-3.141596:11) gives '-3.1416e+00' etc.
      C-type strings: these strings may be written. Their length will be  com-
        puted by scanning for the terminating zero-byte.
7   The only deviation from the standard is the required get(input).  However,
    the  file  window is initialized with a space, while eoln(input) initially
    yields true, so that readln(input) may also be used to initialize the win-
    dow.  If the first input item is a number, no extra initializing is neces-
    sary.  Reset(input) is equivalent to get(input).  For an extensive  treat-
    ment of the problem see the reference manual /usr/doc/pc/ref_manual/*.
8   Error messages are improved.
9   The compiler issues a warning for each variable which is not used or  set.
    The same applies if there is no assignment to a function.
10  There is a new option for the compiler, the  s-option.   If  on  then  all
    non-standard features used in your program will be flagged with a warning.
    Default off.
11  Sets may be packed into a byte if the base-type contains only  8  elements
    or less.
12  It is not allowed to use elements of packed structures as call  by  refer-
    ence parameter.
13  The symbols ':' and '..' are different. '..' must be used in subranges and
    in set constants; ':' is used everywhere else.
14  The words 'extern', 'forward' and 'assert' are not reserved anymore.
15  The syntax of record-type and case-statement is slightly modified:  multi-
    ple semicolons are not allowed anymore.
16  Not only type-identifiers are allowed to specify parameter types, but  ar-
    bitrary  types  are  allowed  as well.  However, using this feature is not
    recommended, because it is likely that it will be forbidden in  the  final
    standard.
17  A call of 'page' is equivalent to 'page(output)'.
18  The upper case letter 'E' is recognized  as  scale  factor  indicator  for
    reals.
19  Tabs are skipped when reading integers and reals.
20  A number in a Pascal program may not be followed directly by  an  identif-
    ier.   They  must  be separated by at least one separator like space, tab,
    comment or newline.












