Each .bin file is a list of "ent"'s, with the first four bytes being the
number of "ent"'s in the file.  Files may be plotted in any order, but should
be plotted from dimmest to brightest.  This is accomplished by passing the
file names to plot6 from brightest to dimmest (I read the files from the
end first).  To get any kind of speed out of this thing, the .bin files
should realy be in ram.

NB: If you modify or recompile this program, you MUST use motorola ffp format,
since the data files are written out that way.  If you do not use the -f -LF
flags (I run Lattice), then you will get very bizzare looking output.
I don't think it will crash and burn though.

I plan to add menu input and maybe a superbitmap to scroll through, and will
probably change the plot_star routine yet again (thus we have plotSIX!),
but feel free to make your own changes, and have fun star watching.  Oh yah,
REAL astronomers may be grossed out by the fact that you enter your view in
degrees (fractions too!), so I may change that to hours, minutes, seconds etc.
I just multiply hours by 15 in my head.

Try looking at ra 85 dc 0.  You should see Orion.  Does it look familiar?

I actually have not pushed this software very hard, so bugs may proliferate.
Let me know if you like/dislike anything, and send bug reports.

The close window gadget stops plotting immediately, in case something has
gone wrong.  Changing the window size causes scaling to occur, so might
mess things up.  (I should probably change this!)

I have not concentrated on making the code small, but have tried to make
it fast.  There are some more things I might do to speed it up (eg remove
stack checking), but it is quite acceptable now.  You should have seen it
when it read the original textual data files with scanf!!!!!

Make sure you remove my .signature before you run the files through sh.
I hope everyone has access to uudecode.

The stars colours are reminicent of the (b-v)? values, but are a guess,
and are a bit too startling.  I have some equations that I will try to
use for this next time.

Maybe after I finish the thesis. {:-|]  <-- stoic, determined look?

Darrin West.


