	PLOT, A PROGRAM TO DRAW GRAPHS     R.Grevis

'plot' consists of 7 files, 1 lex file and 6 'c' ones.
To compile the program, execute 'run' found in this directory
and the program will be called plot.
If the program does not appear to work correctly when running
the supplies examples, then first ensure that libt.a is working.
If libt.a is not working, ensure that the graphics terminal has the
switch settings at the positions require by the graphics package
(see cplot). If it is 'plot' that is not working correctly then
turn the RUNBUG flag on (If the error is pathalogiacal ie, dumps core
then turn on DEBUG instead) and pore over the debug file until you
discover the hopefully simple error.
The program is pretty fast on any machine with floating point
hardware but is still reasonable on machines that don't.


The example data files are found in the directory examples below this one


	WHAT TO DO PROCEEDURE
----------------------------------------------------
	If you got strlen multiply defined, then
	change the routine name in perror to _strlen.

	Other multiple definitions could occur, so just ferret
	them out and take the appropriate action.

	If the graphs have the axes full of 'g' s where numbers
	should be, then your printf(STDIO) does not support the
	'g' ( either e of f, whichever is shorter) capability.
	It should be fixed, but if you can't or won't then
	plot.h has then initial string format which can be changed
	from g to f. The disdvantage of course is that you will get
	a mess for very large of small numbers.
	The regression statistics are also printed out in 'g' format
	These can be changed to f format easily ( in plot5.c )

NOTENOTENOTENOTENOTEFUCKNOTENOTENOTENOTENOTENOTENOTENOTENOTENOTE
If your hard copy is a separate device (not in parallel) then
its default mode should be cooked, -echo, crlf, etc.
It will become quickly apparent if this is not the case.

	Well good luck.

EXAMPLES EXAMPLES EXAMPLES EXAMPLES EXAMPLES 


data*	data files for the 'tests' 

test*	control files for plot
	eg. 
		plot testg3
	NOTE:
		testg* should work !!
		testb* will produce errors !!

