This version of Phantasia has been heavily hacked by Chris Robertson,
September 1985.  Changes include:

- lots of cosmetics in the display (alignment, words not numbers, etc.)
- added a shell escape 
- added HJKL keys for movement (== WSNE) for rogue, vi fans
- timeout may be temporarily suspended with ^P (for answering phone etc.)
- only SPACE BAR == melee in fighting so you aren't killed by typeahead
- M == magic and B == luckout when fighting (commonest answers now
     easier to type)
- speeded response by keeping the peoplefile and monsterfile always open
- "more" accepts a RETURN as well as SPACE BAR
- added "is in <wherever>" for non-visible or non-playing characters
- neatened up the source code (set up indents, etc. for 4-char tabstop)
- threw away RAND because it bombed on at least 2 systems, redid algorithm
- characters are purged less frequently (3 weeks)
- limited resurrections for characters higher than level 10 (IF you're good)
- updated help file appropriately
 *
All complaints and suggestions to {decvax, linus, ihnp4}!utzoo!nonh
   and DON'T BUG Ted Estes for things I did, please.

The rest of this is the original README file from Ted.

This is the latest version of Phantasia.  It incorporates all the reported
bug fixes to date.  The only problem that may arise is the test for
RAND in 'setup.c'.  If you have problems with it complaining, even
though the correct RAND is specified, simply delete it.

Please send me any bugs you may find, but PLEASE be specific.  I cannot
correct a bug which is described as:

    "When I choose a character type, it blows up."
    (What blows up?  What exactly was printed at the terminal?
    Which character type was chosen?  Etc. . . ?)

Also, please tell me which version of UN*X you are running, and upon
which type of hardware.

I will also do my best to help anyone with problems just trying to
get the game running.  Again, I need to know which flavor of UN*X
and what type of CPU.  Also, a copy of the output from 'make'
would be extremely useful.

Any and all ideas/suggestions/additions are more than welcome.  If
you feel strongly enough about it, write the change and send it to me,
and I will do my best to incorporate it in the next version of Phantasia.
Otherwise, I will give serious thought to adding it myself.

Follow the directions in the Makefile carefully to set up the game.
Read the comments at the beginning of 'main.c', if you haven't already.

Enjoy.

Ted Estes
AT&T Computer Systems Division
Skokie, IL  60077

...!ihnp4!ttrdc!ttrda!estes
