Path: plus5!wucs1!cuae2!clyde!rutgers!mit-eddie!husc6!necntc!ames!cit-vax!newton
From: newton@cit-vax.Caltech.Edu (Mike Newton)
Newsgroups: rec.games.chess,net.sources.games
Subject: Chess sources
Keywords: chess, pascal, C
Message-ID: <1670@cit-vax.Caltech.Edu>
Date: 1 Feb 87 07:54:49 GMT
References: <460@yetti.UUCP>
Reply-To: newton@cit-vax.UUCP (Mike Newton)
Distribution: world
Organization: California Institute of Technology
Lines: 35
Xref: plus5 rec.games.chess:59 net.sources.games:818


Regarding the recent posting by Ozan Yigit on Chess 0.5:

	If these are the same as the 0.5 sources that appeared in
two old version of Byte magazine, then I may be able so save you 
a lot of work.  In particular I once typed these entire sources 
in (with comments) and did a pascal --> 4.2 C conversion.  Both 
versions were run a lot, but there seems to be some insipid bugs
from the original source (minor ones -- usually due to lack of
knowledge).  I also interfaced it to the Ritchie move generator
and a hashed data base lookup table (some one else wrote part
of this code).  Since then my interests have changed...

	I am willing to share these with other peole, but have 
absolutely no time for either:
	[1] filling lots of mail/news requests
		nor
	[2] getting all the appropriate licensing agreements signed.
as i am trying to work on a thesis.  I also have no good way of
getting mail to Ozan Yigit.

	If he or someone else can find a mail path to me, or somehow
contact me (see below) AND get the licensing arrangements completed,
I would be more than happy to share this with the net.
 
- mike

ps:  The C version ran MUCH better than the pascal version in speed.  It
is also changed in some small bell and whistle type ways as well as 
'optimized C' code (and 1 assembly language routine 'nxtts') for the
bit manipulation routines.

Mike Newton			Pasadena President, Beach Bums Anonymous
newton@csvax.caltech.edu	818 356 6771 (afternoons, evenings)
amdahl!cit-vax!newton		Caltech 256-80, Pasadena CA  91125
