This scrambled software is a collection of utilities for ploting
physical network maps.  Included are programs to generate pairs
of latitude/longitude representing communication links between
computers.  Also there is a program to take such a list and generate
a map made of vectors in UNIX plot(5) format.  This program is configured
to read a file of world data for coastlines which is provided.  This
world data is very crude and inacurate but provides a good first
estimate.

How to use this software:
Prosumably you have unshared it into a directory.  You should edit the
Makefile to point to where you keep your uucp map as distributed
from mod.map.  Then you should 'make uucp usenet' which will make the
files uucp and usenet containing coordinate pairs for host connections.
Then 'make ndmap' to get the program to build plot(5) files.
The syntax for ndmap is approx:
ndmap [-mel] [leftlongitude rightlongitude lowerlattiude upperlatitude] file
The options are:
	-m	Generate a mercator projection (Without this, latiture and
		longiture are linearly transformed)
	-e	Include connections outside of the view you are viewing
	-l	Viewing limits follow options.

Examples:
	ndmap -ml -127 -55 25 50 uucp
		(North American plot of the uucp network)

	ndmap -el -124 -120 36 40 usenet
		(SF Bay Area usenet with external connections)

The ndmap program includes undefed code to support the world I
database of coastline data.  This is about 100,000 world coastline
datapoints and gives better local maps.  I can't post it to the net.

I also have a program to generate projections from space.  However,
It's very bad code that I'll only clean up if I get a few letters
from people who want it.  (I'm thinking of writting a magazine article
about it and post that to the net if it doesn't get accepted.)

Some notes on the accuracy of the plots:
Because of the lack of care in submitting accurite lat/long data for
uucp hosts and sometimes wild specifications, sites sometimes show
up in the strangest places.  I encourage all uucp sites to register
and give as accurate lat/long data as possible.  Also I suggest that
no commas be used in the '#U' fields.  The geographic data provided
is usually wildly off as well.
				Send money,
				Jeff Anton
