THIS IS VTRM
============

VTRM is a terminal control package, with two implementations: one for Unix
(only well-tested on 4.2/4.3 BSD, but supposedly running under System 5
as well, as long as there is a termcap database), and one for MS-DOS, to
be compiled with the Microsoft C compiler (tested only with version 3.0).
This is a "curses replacement", which does not mean it is a curses
reimplementation: the interface is totally different, only the purpose
is more or less the same: to shield an application program from the
nitty-gritty detail of cursor navigation, inverse video, scrolling, etc.
There are also a few routines for CBREAK-mode input.

UNPACKING NOTES

The shars yield five files:
	README		(this file)
	trm.h		(common header file)
	p1trm.c		(MS-DOS version)
	vtrm.c_1
	vtrm.c_2
The latter two should be pasted together to get a file named vtrm.c:
	cat vtrm.c_[12] >vtrm.c

APOLOGY

I must apologize for the poor documentation.  Most of it has the form of
comments in the source files (note the "specs" for the entire package at
the end of vtrm.c).  This is a library package but I do not have an
adequate test program for it; I usually test it with one of the two
applications that use it -- these are too big to include in this posting.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS

This version of VTRM is by no means an end point in its development.
Work is under way for an implementation that provides the same interface
on the Macintosh.  You are invided to engage in implementations for othr
machines, such as as the Atari ST and the Commodore Amiga.  Comments on
the interface are more than welcome, and should be sent by electronic
mail to guido@mcvax.uucp; this is also the address for bugfixes and
other questions.

AUTHORS

This software was written by:

	Timo Krijnen and Guido van Rossum
	CWI, dept. AA
	Kruislaan 413
	1089 SJ  Amsterdam
	The Netherlands

	Electronic mail: timo@mcvax.uucp,  guido@mcvax.uucp
	Phone: ... 20 - 592 4138.

COPYRIGHT

This software is copyright (c) 1986 by Stichting Mathematisch Centrum,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.  Its use is allowed freely for
non-commercial purposes only.  Use at your own risk: SMC does not take
responsibility for the proper functioning of the software or for damage
caused by its use.  Redistribution is allowed for non-commercial
purposes only, and only unchanged, in its entirety, and including this
copyright notice.
