This is a draft of our requirements for becoming a UUCP subdomain.
Please forward comments to us.

Philosophy:

	We are primarily trying to establish some notion of universal
	service in setting up domains.  The current bang code was
	designed for an environment where every machine has a direct
	connection to every other machine, phone calls are free or
	cheap, and local area networks were just around the corner to
	replace this dialup kind of network.  The UUCP network has
	evolved into a huge, anarchistic network, and none of these
	assumptions are valid anymore.  Hence, we are conforming to the
	widely used, documented mail standard that is catching on in
	the electronic mail community, the ARPA domain standard.  (The
	only other documented standard is X.400, which has not yet
	caught on well enough for us to consider.  The old UUCP !
	format is undocumented and unmanageable in a network the size
	of UUCP; we expect this format to continue to work indefinitly,
	but have chosen to support the ARPA standards at the user
	level.)

	The UUCP community has evolved as an anarchistic, loosely
	connected network with no central administration and no rules.
	This document establishes a number of rules which did not exist
	before.  We have tried to keep the rules to a minimum, but
	there are some requirements placed upon us by ARPA in order to
	register a top level domain.  We see no way to keep a network
	the size of UUCP running without a few rules.  Persons who are
	opposed to having to conform to a few requirements are reminded
	that (a) we are not charging a membership or traffic fee here,
	and (b) nobody is forced to join the domain structure.

	We have determined that a flat name space is beyond our
	capability to administer, so we are dividing the UUCP world
	into subdomains.  The current flat name space using the
	user@host.UUCP syntax will not be supported after a certain
	date [possibly July 1985] and all hosts will be expected to
	band together into subdomains.  We intend to register UUCP as a
	top level domain.  Direct subdomains of UUCP will therefore be
	2nd level domains.  3rd level, 4th level, and so on are also
	possible, but there will be different (presumably less
	restrictive) requirements for lower level subdomains.  We want
	to keep the number of 2nd level domains manageable, since a
	complete list of 2nd level domains will be frequently
	published.  We expect a hundred or so 2nd level domains to be a
	small enough number to be manageable and to allow frequent
	publishing of the list.  These requirements are intended to
	keep the number of 2nd level domains at around 100.

	Rather than having us arbitrarily divide the world into fixed
	subdomains, we have decided to encourage the world to divide
	itself up.  Any group of machines can join together to become a
	2nd level domain, provided it meets the requirements stated
	herein.  Groups can decide for themselves the basis for
	subdivision, although geographic regions are an obvious
	choice.  For example, New England and Northern California would
	be two obvious choices for 2nd level domains.  Very large
	organizations might also decide to become a 2nd level domain,
	for example, AT&T is spread out over much of the United States,
	but accounts for nearly half the UUCP hosts in the world, so
	will probably have its own 2nd level domain ATT.UUCP.  Small
	and medium sized organizations are encouraged to join up with
	other nearby organizations to become regional 2nd level
	domains, in order to keep the total number of subdomains
	small.  An organization with a few machines may wish to become
	a 3rd or 4th level subdomain, but should not become a 2nd level
	domain.

	Individual machines will not be allowed to be 2nd level
	domains, hence, the user@host.UUCP syntax will only be
	supported until we can get the subdomain framework in place.
	All hosts that want to become part of the UUCP domain will have
	to become part of some subdomain.  It is not necessary that all
	hosts attach into the domain tree directly off a second level
	subdomain; further subdivision is allowed if it makes sense
	locally.

	Individual machines may or may not be 3rd level or lower
	domains, according to the policies of the 2nd level domain.
	All individual machines are viewed as Nth level domains, for
	some N.  Thus, if OSGD.CB.ATT.UUCP represents a particular
	machine, it is also viewed as a 4th level domain.

The following is a list of requirements for becoming a 2nd level domain
under the top-level domain UUCP.

-       Conformance with RFC920

	We are operating under the guidelines established by the
	ARPANET document RFC820.  That document describes the overall
	domain structure of the domain tree, and sets forth the
	requirements for domains.  Some of these requirements apply
	only to top level domains, but many of them apply to all
	levels.  Since subdomains of UUCP will be in the ARPA domain
	tree, they must conform to the rules specified there.  Briefly,
	these rules are that each subdomain must have a responsible
	contact person, maintain a registry of all their subdomains and
	machines and the contact persons for them, provide some sort of
	access to that registry with a domain server, be at least a
	certain size, and register with their parent domain.

-       Responsible Persons

	There must be a minimum of two responsible people per
	subdomain.  The main contact must be a technical contact, and
	the alternate may be either a technical or administrative
	contact.  These people will be responsible to the UUCP Project
	initially, and to the UUCP community overall.  When a contact
	person for a subdomain steps down, they must notify their
	parent domain, and either (a) find a replacement, (b) dismantle
	the subdomain, or (c) make arrangements with someone to be a
	temporary replacement.

-       Size

	A subdomain must have a minimum of 100 machines, representing a
	minimum of 250 users.  Exceptions to this rule will be made at
	the discretion of the UUCP Project.  Exceptions are intended
	for situations where a subdomain is small but isolated from the
	rest of the community by an expensive bottleneck, for example,
	Asia and Australia should probably be separate subdomains
	because of their remote geographic location and the expensive
	dialup links to them.  It is expected that Europe will have one
	or two subdomains as well.

	Note that this requirement is stricter than the 50 machine
	minimum recommended in RFC920.  This is because the UUCP net is
	larger than the typical network envisioned by the authors of
	RFC920, is growing faster, and operates using a lower
	performance transport than the TCP/IP environment assumed in
	their environment.

	Single organizations (such as companies, universities, or
	government divisions) desiring a 2nd level domain must show
	that they represent 1/100 of the UUCP domain (so that if 100
	subdomains are created, such organizational domains will be as
	large as other subdomains.)  Medium sized companies that cannot
	meet this requirement but would like to become second level
	domains are encouraged to become gateways for a larger
	geographic subdomains in their region.

	Our expectation is that there will initially be 15-20 2nd level
	domains in the United States, 2-5 in Canada, 2-10 in Europe,
	one in Australia, and 1-2 in Asia.  These numbers are based
	upon the current distribution of hosts running UUCP, and are
	subject to revision as needed.

-       Registry

	Each subdomain must keep a registry of all machines and
	subdomains within it.  While we do not require the complete
	registry to be published, it must be possible to determine the
	organization and contact person for any user, machine, or
	subdomain within the UUCP domain.  We expect that either a name
	server will be made available, or else the responsible persons
	will be able to track down any address within their subdomain
	and find out who it belongs to.  This chain of responsibility
	is necessary in order to idenfify the source of messages
	causing problems for other sites, and is a requirement placed
	on us by the ARPA registry in order to become a top level
	domain.

-       Unique names

	Each domain name must be unique within its parent domain.  For
	example, within the UUCP domain, there cannot be two domains
	named CAL.UUCP and CAL.UUCP.  There could, however be two
	domains called BA.CAL.UUCP and BA.ATL.UUCP, or CAL.UUCP and
	CAL.CSNET.

-       Domain Server

	Once a standard domain server protocol has been documented and
	public domain software made available to implement it in the
	UUCP environment, we expect each domain to support such a
	domain server and allow access to it to anyone.  It is not
	necessary to provide a complete list of all registered hosts,
	but it is essential that requests of the form "who is
	abc.xyz.ne.uucp and who is their contact person" be answered,
	in order to track down the source of errant messages.

-       Gateway

	The subdomain must provide at least one gateway machine for the
	subdomain.  This machine must be able to handle all the traffic
	between the inside and outside of the subdomain, and must also
	be willing to forward traffic from outside machine to outside
	machine.  This gateway machine or machines will become part of
	the UUCP backbone, and complete UUCP connection information for
	the gateway will be published regularly.  Subdomains are
	encouraged to set up more than one gateway; however, in doing
	so, they should ensure that all gateways have good solid
	connections with each other and that all gateways run the same
	versions of routing tables for the subdomain.  External nodes
	should be free to forward properly addressed mail to any
	gateway and be sure that the results will be the same as if the
	mail were forwarded to a different gateway.

-       Updates

	The responsible people will be required to ensure that their
	parent domain has up-to-date and correct contact and connection
	information for them.  We expect that, unless no information
	has changed, that gateways will be updated every one week to
	one month.  The contacts for the subdomain will probably want
	to keep connection information for all internal sites, but are
	not required to present this information to the UUCP Project.

-       Name length

	No hard limit is placed on the length of names used for
	addresses in the UUCP domain.  However, for human factors
	reasons, we expect that names chosen will be both
	representative of the constituency of the subdomain, and short
	enough that people will not object to typing complete
	electronic addresses.  It is recommended that the fully
	qualified domain name be no more than 16 characters long,
	including periods, and that typical user names on the left of
	the @ be kept under 16 characters in length as well.  For
	example, the ATT.UUCP subdomain will probably allow electronic
	addresses in two forms, a machine address form like
	"john@ihnp4.ATT.UUCP" and a person name form like
	"John.Smith@ATT.UUCP"

-       Software support

	All subdomains are expected to conform to the appropriate ARPA
	standards for syntax and semantics of mail and news, including
	RFC822, RFC819, and RFC850.  (News need not be supported, but
	electronic mail is required.)  Mail transferred within the
	subdomain is an internal matter and can be in any format, but
	all mail leaving the subdomain must appear to external software
	to have originated on an 822 conforming host, and mail
	conforming to 822 standards entering the subdomain must be
	accepted and properly dealt with.  It is recommended that
	internal mail also use the 822/819 syntax, as this makes
	gateway issues much easier.  Two consenting hosts are free to
	exchange mail or news in any format they mutually agree upon,
	so long as it does not cause problems for the rest of the
	network.  For example, two hosts may choose to exchange news in
	notesfile format; there is no problem unless news passing
	through this link loses information and the resulting news is
	propagated throughout the rest of the net.

	A document will be published by the UUCP project summarizing
	how the 822/819 standards are to be interpreted in the UUCP
	domain.  Subdomains must conform to the UUCP interpretation
	also.  In practice, this will mean at least support of one
	extension, the dom.ain.name!user syntax as being equivalent to
	user@dom.ain.name.

	We expect to provide public domain software that meets these
	requirements in the next several months, but hosts are free to
	run any software that conforms to the appropriate standards.

-       Representative names

	We expect all our subdomains and their subdomains to choose
	names that are reasonably representative of the constituency of
	the subdomain.  In particular, we discourage subdomain names
	that are chosen from "themes", and subdomain names that are
	just the name of the gateway.  Thus, "ethel" (an example from
	an "I Love Lucy" theme) and "xyzvax" (a machine name which is
	also a gateway") should be avoided, in favor of names like "ne"
	(New England.) Of course, if the most descriptive name for the
	subdomain happens to be theme based (e.g. "homer" for the
	machines named "ulysses", "kalypso", etc, or "xyz" if the
	subdomain is the company named "xyz" whose gateway machine is
	also called "xyz") the name will be allowed.  In general, a
	descriptive organizational name or geographic name is
	preferred, if it is meaningful outside the subdomain.

	The intent of this requirement is that it is easier for humans
	to remember names that are descriptive of the user or the
	user's organization than "cute" names, especially for
	infrequent users of the system.  It is also more helpful when a
	user receives a message from someone in a domain they don't
	recognize, if the name is somehow indicative of the location or
	organization of the sender.

-	Geographic domains

	There are two kinds of domains: geographic and non-geographic.
	A typical non-geographic domain would represent a particular
	organization, such as a university, company, government entity,
	or some other cooperative organization.  A geographic domain is
	one that is intended to register anyone in that geographic region.
	A geographic domain need not accept top level registrations from
	sites in the region, but should allow any machine in the region
	to register somewhere under the domain.

	For example, a geographic domain called "ne" for "New England"
	may subdivide into domains "boston", "nh", "mass", and so on.
	The "boston" domain may in turn have a "bbn" subdomain for
	the BB&N company.  A host "c70" at the BB&N company should be allowed
	to join the "bbn" domain as "c70.bbn.boston.ne.uucp", but need not
	be allowed to join the "ne" domain directly as "c70.ne.uucp".

	Non-geographic domains may establish any rules and requirements
	they wish upon their members.  Geographic domains may also establish
	any rules and requirements, but it is expected that a rule obeying
	host which pays its own way can register somewhere within the
	geographic domain within which it is located.

	It is recommended that all hosts belong to some geographic
	domain, in addition to any non-geographic domains it joins.
	This will enable people to send you mail in terms of the
	geography.  For example, the machine "osgd" may belong to
	the "cb.att.uucp" domain, but it should also register with
	the "cmh.mw.uucp" domain, since it is located in Columbus
	(cmh) in the midwest (mw.)

-	Growth plan

	When a domain grows, it may find that a once workable name
	space becomes unworkable because of its size, and that it
	should be subdivided.  For example, "plus5.uucp" is an
	accepted convention now, but the size of the domain has
	grown to the point where subdomains have become essential.
	As a result, plus5.uucp will probably be renamed plus5.mw.uucp,
	or possibly even plus5.stl.mw.uucp.  This causes an upward
	compatibility problem, and the old name must be supported for
	a reasonable period of time until people are using the new name.
	This is termed "growth by fission", where hosts become one level
	(or more) lower in the domain tree.

	Growth by fission is a difficult process, and we would like to
	avoid it where possible.  We therefore ask that all subdomains
	make estimates of (1) their current size (in number of hosts),
	(2) size in one year, (3) size in 2 years, and (4) size in 5
	years.  We request that the subdomain structure of each domain
	be established so that growth by fission is not needed for 5
	years, if possible, and not for 2 years in any case.  This growth
	plan, including estimates and proposed subdomain structure, should
	be included when the domain applies for registration in the UUCP
	domain.

	We do ask that an appropriate balance be created between room for
	growth and length of addresses.  If the part of a typical mailing
	address to the right of an @ sign is longer than 16 characters,
	chances are that the structure is too bushy.  A domain name like
	osgd.osg.cb.att.uucp might reflect the organizational heirarchy, but
	is a lot for people to remember and type.  Please try to keep the
	names short and the number of levels small.  AT&T is probably the
	largest subdomain of UUCP, yet addresses no worse than osgd.cb.att.uucp
	are anticipated.

-	Initial domains

	To set the flavor of this structure, our intent is that the
	initial 2nd level domains under UUCP will be along these lines.
	This is not a firm requirement, just a guideline.

	Geographic 2nd Level Domains

		wa.uucp		Washington State
		or.uucp		Oregon State
		nca.uucp	Northern California
		sca.uucp	Southern California
		mtn.uucp	Mountain states (AZ, UT, CO, NM, WY, ID, MO)
		sw.uucp		Southwestern states (TX, OK)
		mw.uucp		Midwestern states (ND, SD, NB, KS, MN, IA,
					MO, WI, IL, IN, MI, OH, KY, WV)
		se.uucp		Southeastern states (LA, AR, TN, MI, AL, GA, 
					NC, SC, FL)
		east.uucp	Eastern Seaboard (VA, DC, MD, PA, NJ, NY)
		ne.uucp		New England (CN, RI, VT, NH, MN)

		wcan.uucp	Western Canada (BC, AB, SK, MB)
		ecan.uucp	Eastern Canada (ON, PQ, etc)

		eur.uucp	Europe
		uk.uucp		Great Britain, United Kingdom and Ireland

		aus.uucp	Australia
		asia.uucp	Asia, including Korea and Japan

	Non-Geographic 2nd Level Domains

		ATT.UUCP	the AT&T company
		HP.UUCP		the Hewlett Packard company
	
	This is just a rough guideline, and the actual domains will determine
	their exact boundaries.  Some areas are missing from the above list,
	for example, we don't know where to put Hawaii.  There is room for
	a few additional domains, should some of the above be too big.
	For example, western New York state and Pennsylvania might wish
	to form their own domain, or North Carolina might.  The names above
	are also only suggestions.

-       Right of refusal

	We reserve the right to accept or refuse 2nd level subdomain
	applications.  For example, we would not accept two domains
	with an overlapping general purpose constituency; e.g. two
	domains that both claim to represent the state of New York.

-       Application

	The responsible person must make application to the UUCP
	project responsible person (currently Karen Summers-Horton,
	cbosgd!ksh) outlining who the domain represents, what the name
	of the domain is, showing how it meets these requirements, the
	growth plan, and giving the name, postal address, electronic
	address, and telephone number of both the administrative and
	technical contacts.

Comments and suggestions on these requirements are encouraged.  Please
send them to cbosgd!ksh.  Thanks.

	Mark Horton and Karen Summers-Horton

