The following are the files that this particular sendmail configuration
uses.  These are in addition to the files /usr/lib/sendmail* and
/usr/lib/aliases*.

These files are normally set up in the directory /usr/lib/mail on each
machine.  The file uucp.local needs to be present on each machine, or
else the declaration in gtbase.m4 changed so that the uucp neighbors
are defined as a class macro in the individual .mc files.  I chose
the easy way out for here at GaTech.

Each list is assumed to be one-per-line, unless otherwise stated.


arpa.hosts -- a list of Arpa (EDU, DDN, etc.) hosts.  This is derived
	from one of the hosts.txt file from the Arpa CIC.  These also
	sometimes get posted to net.mail and/or sent out to CSNet sites
	from the CSNet NIC.

bitnet.hosts -- a list of Bitnet hosts.  This is obtained from some
	friendly Bitnet neighbor, or else taken from net.mail the
	next time it is posted there.

csnet.hosts -- a list of CSNet hosts and acceptable nicknames.  This can
	be obtained from the CSNet NIC.

decnet.hosts -- a list of DEC network hostnames.  This list is really
	a kludge and I am seriously considering removing it.  DEC considers
	the actual list to be a company secret and so the list is by
	no means complete.  I derived my copy from checking news paths
	and trading lists with other such watchers.  Each entry is
	in the list twice -- once as "site" and once as "dec-site".
	This leads to some horrible name conflicts.

mailnet.hosts -- a list of Mailnet hosts.  I have no idea where you can
	get an up-to-date copy.  Someone mailed me a copy a long time
	ago, and I haven't seen much mention since.  I know next
	to nothing about it.

uucp.hosts -- the output of pathalias when run on the uucp maps.  This
	list is of all sites reachable via uucp, one per line, with
	a "sprintf" format string specifying the path on the same
	line, separated from the hostname by a tab.  I sort mine,
	but I don't think it makes a difference.

uucp.hosts.dir, uucp.hosts.pag -- the uucp.hosts file in dbm format
	after running makedb on them (makedb was part of the last
	pathalias release).

uucp.local -- a list of all sites reachable directly via uucp from this
	site.  That is, sites for which we have L.sys info.

uumail -- the uumail program executable file.

uumail.log -- a log of uucp mail passing through our site.  Each line
	consists of the sender's address, followed by a tab, the
	destination address as it was presented to uumail from 
	sendmail, a tab, and the actual path that uumail dispatched
	the mail along.  This data can be analysed for traffic patterns,
	finding sites not listed in the uucp maps, and checking to
	see how well uumail is working.

	If the input to uumail generates an error, the third field is
	the error message generated by uumail and sent back to the
	"sender".
