	==[  Instructions for installing Old Empire playing aids  ]==

1) If you are on a 4.2BSD system, change emp.h to uncomment the
   #define BSD.  For SysV, nothing has to be changed.  Also, for
   4.2BSD systems, you might want to use the 4.2mkfile in GENLIB,
   TERMLIB, and UPDLIB instead of the Makefiles provided.

2) When any modifications have been made, do:
	make clobber 
	make all

There are five main programs that are made: 

ecre	- program to create your local sector database (newsect)
	  also can be used to relocate in case you have to move your
	  capital.

eupd	- program to extract info from Old Empire game output and update
	  your local sector database (empsect) and ship database (empship).

ehelp	- Old Empire "visual empire".  Screen oriented display of your
	  local databases (empsect & empship), and Old Empire command script
	  generator.  Script gets written into file called .yout.  I have
	  no idea why it was named .yout.

pworld	- program to print out the world from your empsect file.

rdship	- program to list the ships in your empship file.

In addition, there are several shell/awk programs in MISC that I have
found useful.  They also demonstrate alternate ways to change or look at
your local database.

3) This version is meant to be played with Version 1.1 and any more recent
   versions of Old Empire.

4) The file, Buglist contains all known bugs fixed and remaining in this
   version.

5) This package was incrementally thrown together as adversaries
   put pressure on the author's country.  There are lots of opportunities
   for improving the function and human factors of ehelp, and eupd contains
   one of the most bizarre uses of lex and yacc I've ever seen - but it
   works.  The whole idea behind this set of tools was to make the emp'ing
   more efficient than using grid paper and colored pencils, and using
   up your BTU and time allocation doing census, map, ship, and mov
   commands.  Generally, only the "unpredictable" commands are executed
   without a script (attack, assault, fly, board, spy).
   
6) Send all bug reports and wish list items to ihnp4!druxn!tsf.
